This is Jockel podcast number 246 with echo Charles and me, Jockel willing good evening echo good evening
I was
Doing what I was doing
Getting after it working
It had been five years since I had retired from the Navy
And in that five years I had been working hard and and
Listen, I'm not the guy
That sends a happy birthday texts or
Or meet you for dinner on a Tuesday night
Let's not that that's just not I don't know this is not really my personality
I look if you want dinner and you come to my house at any time will the grill is on will will cook sticks obviously no factor
but
When I'm in the zone I start doing my mission. I get focused on that that's what I do and and I'm not saying that this is a good way to be
I
Actually don't think it's a good way to be I think I get a little target fixation in life and I'm not really great at
Maintaining contact with people
And the fact that I was in the teams my whole life didn't really help because all my friends were team guys and so they didn't need any kind of
consistent communication either
I want one guy that I
Went through buds with went through basic seal training with my class then I went to team one with them
And then we did three deployments together three pull-toon workups three deployments together
Then we went in and training sell together and this whole time we were roommates the entire time
And then I left for the East Coast and
I didn't say one word for two years
Zero and then I got back and we both ended up a team seven and like nothing happened
Look high five and all good and we just picked up and no factor and
That's just
Like I said it's I know it's not great, but that's what this is the way my personality is and
That being said my friends also know that if they call me
I'll answer the phone and if they need something I will make it happen
And I don't care if I haven't heard from you for a year or for two years or for six years if
You're my friend
I'm ready to rock and roll
But most people don't actually like to ask me for help
Most people don't like to ask for help anyways and they definitely don't want to ask of me for help because they don't want me to see that they
Aren't doing well or they've made a mistake or they put themselves in some kind of bad position
So most of the time I don't get those calls
Now
One of the people that I did
Keep in touch with
Was Seth Stone
The Delta Patoon Commander
Mostly through text you know because he he got stationed, you know
He got stationed out of California so he was in different places and so mostly text sometimes email
occasional phone call, but 95% of time text
And and just
Totally good to go two words. You know one word will inside jokes
Maybe if something cool happened
Maybe a picture of the waves if they were good
Maybe a picture of a new board
He would ask me things
He would ask me questions blunt questions about things and I would give him blunt answers
And then he would execute and he would tell me what's going on and like I said these would be in text in short texts
I would get a text from him in some foreign country
And it would say you know
Norway
Period and then there'd be another text that would say girls period that would be it
Then I knew exactly what was happening
And if you need anything obviously to hit me up and
I'd
Get whatever you needed
So one time he sent me a text
And it said something like
The JPE needs help
Can you take care of him?
And that might not seem that that big of a deal of a text but
I
I knew that it there was more to it than just that I knew what that text actually meant because I knew that JPE wouldn't
ever ask for help
Who would ask me for anyways
Too much pride. Is that a thing? Yeah, it's a thing. So I knew JPE wouldn't ask I knew that Seth wouldn't ask me either
He wouldn't want to burden me with anything but
Seth obviously knew that there was something going on for him to send me that text and JPE was his guy
JPE had been Seth's point man and just lead sniper
And he'd done operation after operation after operation with Seth in
Remadi
And JPE was always out front and JPE was always in danger and JPE was always holding the line and JPE was also like my
brother
It's kind of like my little brother
I mean I was
a decade older than him
Actually more than that I think
He was 22 years old when I met him in 23 when
When I sent him in a battle
And I had no problems without whatsoever because that's what he was meant to do
But at this point when I got this text JPE was in the civilian world
He'd gotten out of the navy and
Because he was in the civilian world and Seth was still in the navy and Seth was working and traveling and wrapped up and all that stuff
Seth couldn't
Provide any help
At least the amount of help that he wanted to provide so
That's why Seth hit me up
And I had been trading some texts with JPE occasionally
You know there's a fight would happen or you know we talked about UFC or well just just basic stuff
I knew that he was working in a couple different various places bouncing around a little bit
Trying to figure things out
But a young JPE was meant to go to war so it was no surprise that things might not be as perfect
As they could be as he tried to play the role of a civilian in the civilian world
So when Seth asked me to take care of JPE it was only because Seth couldn't do it himself
And that meant that I had to and and people throw the word brotherhood around
But this is what it means
It means 100% commitment anytime anywhere
Forever
No one gets left behind
So when Seth asked me to help JPE
I responded to Seth's text with one word Roger
And Seth wrote back it thank you
That was it so I started to escalate
The idea that had been floating around of getting JPE to come work at echelon front
Because what I actually knew
But what I figured out when I started thinking through this that wasn't really help that JPE needed at least not in the traditional sense of the word what JPE needed was a mission
So he ended up coming on the podcast
Exactly 200 episodes ago
Episode 46
In October of 2016 and if you haven't listened to that episode
You can go back and listen to it right now just to hear the background of JPE's experience and
Younger life and in the teams and in TU bruiser
But at that time when he was on the podcast he needed a mission so he was actually out when he came on the podcast he had come out to
Observe the first echelon front master
And that was the beginning of his second career
Is the beginning of his new mission he was the first instructor we brought on board at echelon front and he has been here ever since
And the last time he came on
Maybe you can tell a little bit when you listen to that podcast but his life was not
In the best place
He was off the path
But he's in a totally different place now a much better place
And part of the reason for that is because of our friend Seth
Who was always looking to take care of his guys?
And he passed the word to me
To getting engaged
And Seth hasn't here anymore
But JPE is
And JPE is here tonight to
Fill us in on the rest of this story this backstory and
The lessons that he's learned on this journey
And how he's climbed out of that place that maybe wasn't ideal
And the worries that now
JPE
Welcome back
Thank you for having me back. I had no idea Seth I would text that
A while ago I was asking you questions. I was trying to figure out I was saying hey remember when Seth drove visited you
I was trying to figure out when that I was trying to put together the dates
So that I could figure out
How what I did but I did actually didn't want to tell you I didn't want to tell you that that's what it happened
But I was asking you like when did you and when did you come to the most in when did Seth see you?
I was trying to put together the dates because
I have the old texts
But I have you and me your your R text. I have back until a long time
Whatever Seth's phone number changed in 2017 so I only have
Like I don't know I don't have the full history at least not on I couldn't find it
But yeah, that's what happened. He sent me a text that was like
JPE needs help
Can you take care of him and I just wrote back Roger
Awesome and you know you and I like I said and as I went through our text and
You know, I don't know
Where but all of a sudden I was like okay if I could JPE to come to the master he's gonna see what's going on and then he can like
Hook a carabiner into this thing and yeah, let's go rock and roll well it was also
At that time I was also reaching out to you consistently and and I remember specifically I said hey
I know the mentor doesn't seek out the mentee. That's why I'm hitting you up. Is there anything I can help with?
Because you and I were talking one time and like oh I just did a gig and I'm like wait where was that and you told me I'm like
I was 35 minutes from a house
And I remember we were just texting about that. You're like I had no idea sorry
Like I don't even know where I'm going until like the day before according to my calendar. That's how busy
And I I'll be honest at first I was when you said down like yeah
Remember you tell me you did like later all you like a like two years later. You're like I didn't believe you and then it was happening to you
But I get it now because I'm like wait what city am I going to next? Oh, okay?
Yeah, yeah, there's what last year I but I don't I can't remember what month it was but yeah, I spent five nights at home
Like all the FTXs and
Musters and everything else like that and engagements and I remember I was like oh yeah
I get that but yeah, that was I was texting you just hey, what can I do to help is hurting to you?
Help with and there is a from for me
I just thought you were like hey man if you ever need anything I thought it was one of those
well, I didn't I didn't understand I didn't read into it. I should have been like okay
You know jp's text to me four times in the last two months saying hey if you ever need anything
Let me know I'm an idiot and I should have been like oh, okay
I need to talk to jp and said I was like hey, we're all good right now. We're something
Well, I could have been a little more aggressive to the point and clear with my communication and said
Because my my thought was okay, I've done I've done sales for a couple years when I got out. I was doing well
I left that to start my own consulting company
I
Left doing that very emotional. You know, I didn't really plan out what I was going to be doing and so
You know, there was just a gap and work and and stuff like that and I in my mind I was like well
I can sell I know what they're doing like it works as well
Maybe they need somebody to help with sales or or anything
I was just I wanted it to do anything I could just to try to help and be
Back working for you again and life and you know, I just I did want to be too aggressive and too pushy
Checked this out echo trolls just have you ever seen a movie called the sixth sense yes
Jp of you seen it. Yes
You know how like in the end you all of a sudden the whole picture becomes clear of what happened
That's basically what happened with me was when I got that text from Seth all of a sudden like all the dots connected and I was I said to myself
Oh, that's what's going on. That's what these texts are
Manatee it yeah, I mean because during that time
I was helping build up I was helping it a guy build up his training facility in Alabama
It's an awesome facility that they have done there things didn't work out between us because of my lack of
Proper communication with him
You know, I I dropped the ball on that and so then I was solely doing my own thing
I was teaching shooting I was citing in people's hunting rifles for I was just doing anything I could for extra money like doing construction
Repairing fences in the neighborhood for the landlord to help like go towards my rent and you know, and then I got the call
to
From a team guy buddy of ours Kevin Cap and he was like hey, what are you doing the summer? I'm like at the time
I'm like why'd open right now? I'm not
Let me check my schedule
Um, and he said hey
Would you want to be on transformer's 5 as an extra playing in ABC?
And I said something back to him like pretty smart ass
He's like no I'm being serious Michael Bay is looking for younger looking team guys
I'm like awesome what do you need for me?
So I like I sent over there for you know, I said what do you need to back for me?
Didn't hear anything I was still helping out somebody else with their training company kind of building that up and then I was down
In Alabama again, so I'm back down in Alabama with another guy and I
Get the call from
Harry's wife. Harry's an old team guy. He's been in the movie industry for a long time and she's like hey
Michael Bay loves your pictures loves your stuff. Can you
Be on a plane tomorrow?
I
Hold on let me let me check because in their world everything runs around them. I'm like I have a family I have commitments and so I talked to the guy
My K here's the opportunity I have like or you go with it and he was like do that's a great opportunity
Go ahead. I'm like okay, so we finish our little business dinner down there
It's a six hour drive back to Mississippi. I call Amanda
Explained to her and she's like that's amazing. Yes, so I drive all the way back pack out everything
They're like oh you're going up to you know Detroit Michigan area
It was like that's where the filming outside of there
You know don't know how long you're gonna be up here. So it's just total open-ended don't know how long you're gonna be up here
Went up there we ended up going to the UK filmed over in the UK as well
You know, it was a really cool experience getting to just see that aspect of it and um
Which it was cool what year was that this was 2016?
This is a summer of 2016
And you know and it's funny. I got a text from one of my buddies
Michael the other day when you know the saddle apple sniper came out
He's like hey man. I'm super proud of you. He's like four years ago
You were trying to figure out
Possibilities of getting paid from paramount pictures sooner because they're they're
Pay is super slow. They don't care like they don't like oh you'll get your pay when you get your pay
And a lot of the guys not just me. We're just like hey man. We left other stuff that paid on time to come do this
And now we're not getting paid on time like we kind of need a money and
He's like four years ago. You're trying to figure out how to actually get paid in a timely manner and I get room
Signature flavor energy intake with with jockel and he's like that's amazing and so it's just
It's crazy to see the last four years what is what is progressed
So did the filming and then I was
Looking at doing some contracting. There's some security work up in the decoders on the pipeline
I was gonna go do an opportunity to go do some security and some long-range shooting instruction overseas and
That one that one paid a thousand dollars a day for 70 days and I'm like
This was the one that we had to discuss
This was the one that was a big choice
Yeah, that was I get the I get the thumbs up on that one
So the the monster was gonna take place and not October. I think yes, and you know I said hey
This is I actually looked at the text yesterday. You know I said hey, we're doing an event October 14th and 15th or whatever
It would be cool if you could come out and see what we're doing and
You had just gotten this offer to go overseas for a thousand bucks a day for 70 days
It makes 70 grand 70 grand when we had
We didn't even I mean total between checking and savings
We didn't even have a couple hundred dollars at the time. You know I'd put my family in a really bad position and
And I remember talking to you about that and the guy Michael I'm talking about I called him for advice as well
After I in the call to Amanda when I had talked to you I talked to him. I was trying to get a grasp for the situation before I call to Amanda
So I could actually have like a legitimate conversation with her and kind of talk through the opportunities and
You know, it was it was awesome. She just kind of let me talk and I already knew the answer
I knew what I needed to do and she did too and you know she told me she's like
You know what the answer is she's like you know
Joccona life will never steer you wrong. You know the opportunity with Joccona life is
Is unlike anything else that you've had and the fact that they're giving you this opportunity
You need to take advantage of it. I agree a hundred percent. I just I guess I needed to hear from her because it's easy if I if I was single
That's a brainer, but when you have a wife and three kids that
Can be affected by your decisions and I had obviously made some decisions. I put them in hard positions
I mean there is times where we were using gift cards that we got from Christmas and birthdays and everything to go eat dinner
Like okay, we'll tie to money
Guess what hey kids you guys want to talk about cool yeah because we have a 25 dollar gift card to talk about we can
Go get $15 or the food is a family and then have 10 more for another day and it was going over the in-laws and eaten with them a lot and
You know it's just
Harps issues I didn't want to put my kids in but then I'm getting this
$1,000 a day in front of me
I had another buddy Steve Arian who is I was teaching long-range shooting with he has a awesome consulting and shooting company
Gray Fox industries. He's always been really good to me and he he kind of knew I was in that you know needed work and so he always would be like hey
I'm I'm offering you this first before I give it to the other instructors that I have and
At the same time I was already committed to teaching with him in Texas and then I was going to be headed for that overseas gig
And so when I decided and I called you and you're like cool
You know, just let me know when you get you know
When you book your fly I'll get you connected with Jamie and I called Steve
I said hey, you know, here's the opportunity I have you guys I can get another instructor to cover down
Yeah, but he was tied on his his funds as well. He's a cam not gonna be able to pay you your travel day
You know because I don't have to pay for another instructor like I don't care man like the fact that you're cool with me
leaving halfway through this course
Do thank you so much like this this means a lot to me and
And
And so I was already out in Texas. I already driven out there and so I looked through all my old airline accounts that I
Because when I traveled a lot doing sales I had point added up. I'm like oh
I can all be able to get from Texas from love field to
San Diego I have points at least get me there
And I was trying to figure out how I was gonna get my back three to the out of the money and
And so we figured out like I finally I get the flight book that I remember when I sent you that you're like awesome
You connect me to Jamie and
You'd mention like yeah, maybe you can crash on my house like you can say with me here and I was trying to figure out where I was going to stay
But in my mind my concern was well, I can't rent a car and we're not gonna have enough money to to Uber
I'm not gonna have enough money to Uber anywhere so I'm like thinking okay, hey, and then as we got closer to the vet
Like Jamie got a hold of me and she's like hey, we have a room here for you at the hotel where the event's gonna be and that I was so thankful
Like okay, I don't need to Uber any eyes like I can at least Uber from the airport to the hotel
And I remember I even like looked at it like I can just walk I can walk there
Like from the airport to that hotel. Not a big deal and
And so
It just worked out and it was able to make it out there and
We were gonna do whatever we had to get me out there for the opportunity yeah, and you you camouflage
It's basically all this from me the conversations that we had I thought you know you're making a decision
You know you said hey I got this opportunity
To go overseas and make this much a day
I didn't know that I remember saying you look that's a kind of a that's a great deal
You know and if you if you need to go do that, you know we can hook up later or whatever
I didn't know that you were in the dire straits that you were in because you didn't tell me because
Because I'm a grown man that put myself in that position
It was nobody else's fault other than mine yeah and
Yeah, that's one of those things when it's so when I bring like someone on board
You know I don't I don't want to pull the wool over your eyes and another thing I told you was hey
If you come to Eshelon front you may have
50 gigs next year and you may have one you know I don't know I we you know
It's we're going into the market. I don't know you know no one is gonna know who you are
No one's gonna you know
Understand who you are and we'll have you on the podcast and people will get a little bit familiar with you, but
I don't know what that means. I don't know what that means. I don't know what it's gonna what it's gonna get you
So I don't know yeah, and you are super transparent and honest
And you said nobody knows who jpey to know is
They are requesting life-babin and jaco
Like that's when they reach out to Eshelon front for speaking that's who they want
But yeah, and then you said the rest and I was like yeah, I understand 100%
And the other thing that you said that I'll always remember and you know it's a little fear of loss
Put in there, but you weren't doing it on purpose. You're just being honest and this was a very
realistic
possibility said
I don't know when the next time we would be able to link up like in regards to like I don't know when I'll be able to get you out to the next event for you to see what we're doing
and
for me that was that was I mean not terrifying, but for me that was
It put me on edge because if you're like a now or never situation absolutely it was we have I have to do this and
You know Amanda understood that a hundred percent I understood it my buddy Steve
He understood it as well. I mean he was super supportive of it. I mean he even office like man is everything
I could do to help you get out there
It's just a great guy and I just I knew the opportunity that I had and I wasn't going to
I mean what what's gonna happen? What what worst of a situation am I gonna be in?
I use all my online points. I use up the little money. I had in my PayPal account for Uber because I
You know with me teaching shooting
Some people had bought the never settle shirts that I had at the time not a lot of people were buying them
But some people would buy them and they'd buy it through PayPal so that money I never even transferred to my bank account
Because that was like a extra saving savings that was out of sight out of mind that I was able to use that was your Uber account
It's so great. I can't believe it's it's again. It's a six cents thing for me right now even right now because I'm also thinking
I paid you to come to the monster because like you help me ramp PT and everything right
You paid me after we got done recording episode 46 and we're standing outside of the office and you have me a check on them
I like open up
What is it and I got pushed it back towards you and I said no and you
I actually got pretty upset
And you said something to me and you you pushed it back towards me
And I was like okay, what do you mean said something what do you said? We of course we want to know what he said
Fuck you
And to me that's the check
Well, what you didn't know is we had $17 in our bank account total between checking and savings and the check that you gave me that I was like
I mean
Yeah, I mean that was but see that that's why I said six cents because when I gave you that check and you looked at it
It looked like I just gave you a check
For a million dollars and and you felt like the look on your face was
It was actually as if it was a million dollars and I was giving it to you and your look was this is amazing
But I can't accept this right and that's the look that you had on your face
I couldn't
I couldn't but when Jocca says I to you and pushes it back and he legitimately looked like angry with me
I'm like oh I've never seen Jocca angry before
Yeah, and so
I mean even getting up to when we recorded episode 46
I'm thankful that
Brady was in town in Brady you know Lanter who's been a you know trooper from day one with you guys
This was there at the mustard and he had asked I believe you if he could come and just sit to listen
And he paid for the Uber as we're headed up there. I was gonna pay for it
But I was like oh, you know and he paid for it up there and I was like
Okay, and then you dropped us off of the hood on the way back
But it's so crazy and you know I talked about this before like
When you're in a leadership position right and this is me talking because I know that this happens
No one wants to tell me that they're tired no one wants to tell me that they don't want to do another mission
No one's tell me that stuff and
Hardly anyone ever does you know and no one wants to tell me that hey man. I'm really hurt from money right now
What can we do to make this work? No instead you're just like hey kids you're eating ramen
You know, I mean I shared it on episode 46
You know my my family there was times that we were really tired on money like really tight
And there's times that a man to grow up they were really tired on money like my father and law and my father
Like I told you before many times to the hardest working man
I know I
If shared the stories of my dad, you know growing up him working construction
Him be he would be coughing up blood because he had pneumonia who super sick is in the winter time and he's still
Would go out and frame houses poor concrete do brick and blockwork
Ruffa house whatever working need to do for 10 12 14 hour days so that we we could get paid
So that he can provide our family my father and law
Same way he had to have always two to three jobs at a time he would come home from work
He would spend some time with Amanda and in her mom Debbie and in her brother Nick and
Then he would go do some night shift somewhere
He'd come home get a couple hours of sleep and then he go do is is to I mean he was always working and I
Did I knew that from times with with with Amanda and my my understanding was you know
I put myself in the situation. I can work out of it now
Thinking back four years later could I have gone about a different way? Absolutely. You know it's like
The missions that we would do you can always look at the mission that you do and even though you come out of a mission
What's the success you look at it and you're like hey, you know if we would have done this it would have been a little more effective
Hey, if we would have done this maybe those guys wouldn't have been wounded
My thing is I put myself in that situation. I had already read extreme ownership and
Extreme ownership is like we shared on the last podcast what regained the marriage for a man and I we were divorced
And we were able to get our marriage and our family back together
I knew that I had put myself in that situation. It wasn't anybody else's fault and
At the time like before I read extreme ownership like when things had fallen apart with some other guys with their
Contracting companies or the training companies that I was helping out and helping build up
That crept back into me of that that blame and I got mad at them and I was up set and frustrated with them
And then I read extreme ownership and like well no actually I could have been more proactive
I could have had better communication I could have done so many more things that would have
Ensure that I had success with these other business relationships and
And you know and I just I needed to work out of it now. It was my ego involved for sure
I mean because I don't know if anybody and it doesn't
Man or woman that wants to go to somebody that they respect some of that they worked with a friend of family member and say hey
You know we're hurt and financially nobody wants to go do that what I should have done
Like you just said is been a little more transparent and said what can we do to work through this like
Yeah, and that's the thing that sucks as I look back because
You know I gave you this check which was you know it was cool. It was it was just it was some money
Yes, but that's not that didn't get you out of the hole and I didn't know
How big the hole was I didn't know what your fault said? I didn't know you didn't have money
I just didn't know that I thought hey, you know he's got I knew you were doing other stuff
I know you're teaching shooting whatever I knew you had some other things going on and I thought you know
Hey cool will will slowly you know we'll start getting you some gigs
Why don't you on the podcast that'll come out people start asking about it
We'll get you on the roster we'll take you to some gigs you can sit there in the back you can do some Q&A
And we'll get you you know we'll get you ramped up over the next three four months no big deal
That's what I'm thinking yeah, I'm thinking no big deal. We'll get you ramped up over the next three or four months and
You know my attitude
In life and
And it that attitude reflects very deeply into the way that I run businesses is
You eat what you kill and so if you come and work for me and you think well
I'm just gonna give you money because you showed up now
I'm not actually gonna do that if you come and work with me and you start producing results
Cool we split up the results and we go forward and everyone's happy
So what I'm saying is you show up at echelon front to start working you do not get any money until you start working
Yes, and that took time and what I didn't realize is
You weren't out of that whole yet and so that puts you for a few more months again
This is all me looking back six cents now. I go. Oh, that's what was going on but it was not
It was not oh welcome to echelon front now everything's good
No, and the way the way that I hit the way that it happened was was perfect though and I am I am fully on board with what you just said
And I think I think if
Everybody operated that way society would be a lot better. I truly believe that
Because it takes away from that sense of entitlement and people think that because they're all a part of a team
That they get to reap the rewards and it's like no like if you are putting out if you are working
If you're hunting then you're going to eat and I knew that and you told me you and life both told me hey
We are going to give you as much work as you want if it's there
You are the one that needs to tell us like hey, I need a need a break and I remember laughing
When you guys said that oh my god, that's okay. That's that's gonna be a great problem half
And so we came I come back from San Diego the monster is great met a lot of amazing troopers at that very first monster
You know, I learned so much at the monster and that was when that was my
I am all in this is what I want to be doing like you said
I needed that new mission and I've talked about this multiple
Muster is about
Finding a new mission because a lot of people without that mission they're lost and when they're lost
Very rarely are you gonna actually make any sort of progress if you're truly lost you'll make zero progress
If you kind of start to figure out where you're at then you can start to get some progress
It's like if you're doing land navigation and you don't have a compass and you're out there and all you have is a topographical map
You're completely lost you have no idea what's going on so it's a middle of the night
It's really hard to see terrain features in the middle of the night if you're out in the middle of nowhere
You might be able to see a little bit with the moon and the stars and if you're really good at being able to rain that
Read the train then you might be able to figure out where you're on that map
What you actually need is the ability to look around and and gain some situation on awareness
Yeah, and what you actually need beyond that is you need to have a goal of where you're trying to go to
Because otherwise you can look at that map all day and sit there because it doesn't matter
You need a map you need a compass. Yeah, but you need to pick a point on that map and say
Okay, this is where I'm trying to get to 100% and this isn't by the way
We say this all the time to veterans. Hey, you need a new mission when you get out of military
But it's not just veterans. It's people that graduate from college people that get laid off from a job
People that get leave you know their family splits up and all of a sudden they're by themselves
All those situations are situations where you got to look up and say okay, what's my new mission?
What am I gonna do and if you don't do it you're sitting out in the middle of the woods without a map without a compass and without
Without a without a destination that you're trying to get to absolutely and so
Once I figured out okay, this was my new mission. This is this is what I wanted to be doing
It changed my mindset because I I was at the time where I was just surviving. I was
Just trying to survive for my family trying to like just I one thing I know
Is I know I'm smart. I know I'm not super intelligent like a lot of like the people I work around with these days
Like my brother and my sister very extremely intelligent
But I know I can work hard and so that's what all I was doing was just working working working hard
Which is great. There's nothing wrong with hard work
I just wasn't being smart with my hard work
So I wasn't getting like the momentum and the success that I needed to put my family in a different situation because
There was no clear mission like I had no why like
Or let me kind of go back on that my why was providing for my family that was clear
But in order for that why to provide the results and yield the the success that I wanted
And I really I wasn't gonna be able to do that until I had figured out what that new mission was going to be and I thought it was gonna be
Starting never settle consulting because I wanted to be teaching shooting tactics and combat as
To law enforcement and military to help them out like I my heart was big for law enforcement because I saw the lack of training that they had
And that's where I really want to do what I screwed up was is I didn't come up with a good plan
All the things that I knew to do in the military all the things that I knew to do as a point man as a sniper
Like
With planning and you know just making sure I can execute the highest level. I wasn't doing that as a civilian
So I was failing and then when I saw what you guys are doing and saw how I could have a
Just a seat at the table and the ability to contribute and to provide impact and service and
You know, I've always
understood servant leadership
You know growing up in the church my parents always explained it to me. I saw it firsthand from family members
And then I saw it firsthand working directly for Seth Seth was an
Amazing leader that served his men. He he was always about the man. He was always about the mission
He was all he was it was everybody else but himself. He always took care of everybody else and when I saw
What you guys were doing here at echelon front at the very beginning
That's what I saw like I saw that again. I saw that fulfillment of
Something that was very similar
To what we had in the seal teams and I I wanted to be a part of it. That's all I want yeah and and going back to the
Analogy of land navigation
You can be a hard worker and you can go and up and down those hills with your rucksack
But if you don't know where you're going you're all you're doing is sweating a lot and doing a lot of work
But you're not actually making any progress in any direction and that's that's not good and and I'm sure
You know, I'm sure we talked about this but from the get go at echelon front almost immediately
We were working with not just companies, but we were working with law enforcement
We were working with military units so I know that was you said you you saw that that's we were already executing what you know
What you actually really wanted to do and then you saw
Which the my what a great introduction come to the master and you saw that not only does this apply to law enforcement and the military
But it also applies to every
Business out there everyone a leadership position
You know starting my own thing was it was good. I'm glad I did it learn like I learned some very valuable lessons
um
But for for me to have the opportunity to be a part of what you you in life were doing it was it was a good opportunity for me
To also learn to check my ego because I had a lot of people like man you need to be doing your own thing
You need to be doing your own business. You need you right your own book. You need it's all you know
It's all about me doing my own thing
And I just I would be very polite to people that say that
Sometimes I would be a little irritated because I'm super defensive of you and life and my boys
You know I've always been like that and I know they didn't mean it the wrong way and
I found we just taught people like I don't care that it's not my company
What this company is doing is what matters like this is what matters this is what I want to be a part of this
It doesn't need to be my consulting company. That means nothing
Like and I know I'm a part of this as a gross and that was at the very beginning like I was you know
There is this you need to be doing your own thing from other you know people
I didn't really know me very well. I didn't know you guys very well
Because when I came back from us recording the podcast
I went straight back to what I was doing teaching shooting citing and hunting rifles
Doing construction whatever I could do to to make some ends meet and
And I remember I was I got a miss call from Jamie and I called her back I was out at my buddy's property
He's such a good guy. He would always let me have that his his family had
100 and seven acres down
John south of us where we lived in Mississippi
He's a you know former service member you know he was wounded overseas
He was a he was a cop in the Memphis area
Then he's working for his family's business and so him and I would we would go shooting all the time my gains great guy
He was a sniper and he was like yeah, is it when I should have zagged
Shaw it you know just always you know makes light of the the situation that he's in him
He was another guy that really helped me out because I he knew kind of the situation
I was in I was trying to make ends for my family
He would let me set up shooting courses and hunting hunting rifles down at his family's farm for nothing
Because I was like hey man, I was like we could split the cost I can pay you guys it's like man my dad just likes having you around down here
I'm like okay, you know, he's that and so I would always offer to pay and he just always was like nope nope
And he so he really helped me out and I remember I was down there and I was
I got a miss call and I called Jamie after I was you know sighting in this rifle and she's okay
It's super last minute. I was talking to Jaco
You know he has an event with
Um, Los Angeles County fire. It's a full day workshop. Would you be able to make out to San Diego?
I said um yeah, I went she's like we'd have to get you on a plane tomorrow
Okay, and I call my wife really quick. She said absolutely and she's like and it's it's not a paid gig
But it's a good opportunity for you to just go see what Jaco's doing and you know kind of getting the game
I'm like yeah, okay. I don't I don't care and
She's like but we're gonna book your travel. I'm like oh cool awesome
I was gonna be kind of book my own flight out there. I was like and this is an October
So we recorded in September right yeah the muscle was in September
I forget no no no
There's not so this is legitimately next week. So okay and so I was on fire up. I call it a man and I she's like
Okay cool. Yeah, no no factor
And I remember I was so excited because you know Jamie's like hey it's last minute flight the seat to kind of crappy
I'm like it's okay and I flew from Memphis to Atlanta and then I landed in San Diego and so yeah
Both both like some middle seat get some back in economy and I'm just I
Just having huge smile on my face like good I could care less
You know and I just had the mindset of like I was just so happy that I was getting to do this
It's a it's a same mindset that I had going through buds and
In training and in combat was I get to do this. I would always try to
Remind myself like I get to do this and the fact that I was flying out to San Diego
I was a static I'm like man I would have drove out there. You like Jamie would have said hey
We need you by here. I'm like all right. It's gonna take me
28 hours. Let's go get something so I fly there
Man the hotel you come pick me up the next day we go up we do the event
We're driving back down and I was just I was smoked I was just smoked from just the day the travel
I didn't sleep at all that night in the hotel
I was having a lot of headaches and and just issues so anytime I go out and I do have a couple days of shooting
At the time I will get really sick. I get headaches I would throw up
Just being around the concussion of just the rifles and shooting a lot and I remember
We got done with it. We're driving back down
When I I had two never saddle shirts. I gave you one to give to echo and I gave them to you
And I said hey
If there's anything I can help you guys out with echelon front of my kids
There's any gigs and I was like I just want you to know like I'm all in like anything I can do
Like I can't keep doing what I'm doing right now. I was like and I know you you said it was like is there anything like
The VA like you were like concerned because you knew like I was having some issues with with my brain and
Just my ability to focus and headaches and and sleeping and and stuff like that and
I remember that was like kind of the first time I had kind of it was was vulnerable with you and shared with you like
I can't keep doing what I'm doing like if I could do something with you like this is what I want to do and you're okay
Roger that which I respected because
You've always since day one you and life of always
Error on the side of not over promising anything like
Just being very
Transparent and almost underselling stuff like just completely underselling stuff
Which I've always respected. I've always loved that and that's one of the things when we were growing
The field training exercise team the experiential leadership training that we that we run national in front
I've done that with the team like I did that with Cody. I did that with Kawi. I was
Very blunt and say hey, this can all go away tomorrow
We could have no training tomorrow like you need to understand that nothing is guaranteed even when we do the training
It's still not guaranteed until we get paid by the client and I that was what you and life
Had always told me from day one life and I had a lot of conversations about that as well at the beginning
He just wanted to make sure
There was no
I guess false expectations on my end and I and I respect that and I love that and so I go back to San Diego the next day. I'm sorry
I go back to Mississippi the next day and then I get a call from
From Jamie again and she said hey life student event and Fort Worth
You know, would you be able to join? I get it like absolutely yes and I told him like hey anything that I can join
Jock on life like I'm available just if you can just give me more than like a next day travel heads up like we're good to go
You know, she was she's been so amazing from the get go and so helpful
And I've learned I mean I could do a whole podcast on what I've learned working with Jamie Cochran because she's just amazing human amazing
Remember of the team and I've learned a lot from her over the last four years and
And so she's like okay here's the dates. You know, I'm gonna book your flight and everything else like that
and hey you're gonna meet up with life and
And Mary she said well you can like wait till link up with life
Meet up with the hotel or you guys can get like car service together and again. It was that like
Man, I don't I don't have the money for car service or an Uber
From DFW to Fort Worth is like this at the it's funny because I live there now and then I
I thought this is a big long trip and everything and and Mary she's like, I'll just get you know
It's the easier if I just get car service for you. I was like yes
And so I linked up with life
We went out to dinner that night and
Then we're at the hotel and I just thought it was so awesome. He's like hey, let's lose to rehearse everything for tomorrow
Even though I wasn't helping present I was just gonna watch him present and then he was gonna pull me up for Q&A
But he wanted to rehearse everything with me and I thought that was great and
You know I brought a suit out there because they said hey, do you have a suit?
I said yeah, I was doing sales on a financial company. I have some suits and so I I brought a suit out there and
You know watch life and I recorded it on my phone
You know I did the audio recording little voice recording thing on your phone of him of him giving the keynote
He had given me the keynote deck. I put on my computer and so we were just kind of like rehearsing talking through it together
He pulled me up on stage. We did Q&A and
You know, I just remember
I was so excited to be up on on the stage in front of all these people with a lathe. I'm wearing a suit and
It just it was just I felt like
I was making some progress from my situation
Even though like financially there had been no difference like I was starting to see the change in my mind in my mindset like my attitude
The way I was thinking of things and
I remember this guy asked her question you said hey, what's the best?
Counter sniper rifle what's the best rifle to counter another sniper and what do you think my answer is my answer is?
Well, 300 win Mac because I played some cat mouth games with some enemy snipers and I didn't work out well for them
And I'm just going back to straight like that and life goes
Actually and I answer it. I'm like
Cool because they wanted to hear about what type of rifle that I shot and
Life goes actually the best
Weapon to counter an enemy sniper is an M1 Abram tank
He goes those soldiers came to our aid every single time we need to do that if
If if we were having issues with enemy fighters we'd call him for tank support they would come in and they would handle that
And that was like a major aha moment for me of
This isn't about what we did in task unit bruiser
It's about what we did as Americans fighting together soldiers Marines and sailors working together
And I remember like I wasn't embarrassed that he corrected me
But it was a noted
This is not about what I did as a sniper and I felt embarrassed that I gave that answer
About what I did and it was just it was a very humbling moment and then so we we get down with the event
And I just I remember sitting there just watching people line up to like take pictures of the lathe and him sign the book
And I was like man, this is so cool. I'm like hey, you guys need me take pictures. I'm really good at taking pictures
Don't worry. I'm coming for you. Okay, I'm really good at taking pictures
And so and so we do that event. We go and we grab some we grab some food
Go back to airport and
We saragabies and he gave me a he gave he gives me a check
This war and he's like this is for work and you know this is you know what we did today
This is a percentage of it and you know like that's that's how it works like you do events like you get a percentage
He goes obviously jocquanir gonna get paid much more than you are I laugh like oh you think
But he's like hey, you know
He's like you did solid with the Q&A and I appreciate you being here and he goes anytime we can
Do stuff with another instructor. It's always gonna be better than just someone by themselves
I look at the check. I'm like
Damn it like this is awkward like I just didn't feel like I deserved that the
And I and I and I told him that he's like no, you know he's like your time is valuable
And that was another really important thing that I learned was he said your time is valuable and that's when I started to
Again
Really start to value
Who I was and my time and what it's worth
Because for while I didn't value my time
I didn't you know I think now like people that now I get is some of it's fun like like oh
Black Friday specials like the camp overnight to like get the TV that they're saving 50 dollars on like people
Oh, but I saved my but you spent 23 hours sleeping on a curb outside of the best buy to save
$50 like that's what your time is worth that's what you know
And so I remember when he said your time is valuable
That was and I needed to hear that I knew that but I just I needed to hear that from somebody that I really looked up to
Life and I went through SQT together. I've always looked up to him as a leader. I know how intelligent
And he's brilliant. He's very smart right him and Seth were those leaders in SQT and Andrew Paul as well that I was like they're all like super smart
I'm like
Cool got my house cool to poem
But I just have always looked up to life and I know life also
Doesn't be yes
Life isn't gonna say something that he doesn't believe or
Think is true and so when he said your time is valuable
I
Said yeah on the inside I'm like okay, it is it is valuable and so I'm sitting at the airport
I'm sitting at the dials Fort Worth Airport and fly back to Mississippi and this guy's like looking at me
And I'm always scanning like we always are and I'm always looking around and like he's just looking at me
You know like a smile kind of give a head nod and
I'm still and so
Like he gets up and I'm like I'm gonna keep my own him and
And I see him on his phone and he's like looking at me he's on his phone look and he comes up
He's at this point. He's got a big smile. I'm like okay not not a threat
And the other thing like man, I don't want to do this at the airport because then I'm never gonna be able to fly
I can't if I have to defend myself in the airport
It's probably gonna be bad the guy has big old smile and he's like hey, are you?
Are you JP to know? I said yes sir. He's like man. I thought so he's like I was just watching you on jocopod gas his name is Stan
And super nice guy. I'm like oh, that's great. And so we connect
Because I can't I love to get you he's like are you part of echelon front now? I said yes sir
He said awesome man. He's like maybe I can get you to come out and talk with our company
I'm like yeah, we can absolutely do that
I'm just like yes
Come on you want to get tomorrow
Like where are you guys located and we changed my flight?
He was flying back to Mississippi with me. Oh, we're good. Yeah, we're good. He's down in two below and
And and so we we fly back and you know, talk to him a little bit after the flight and then we we kind of cut out
And it was again back to same thing go home change out
Working construction and then at the time
My buddy Jared White he he had already built me at this an amazing rifle
It's an ARSR platform and it's probably one of the best air platform guns I've ever shot
He is amazing at what he does and he's like hey man. He's like I have I have a long-range rifle
I want to give to you as a gift
Is it what he's like yeah, I was like okay, and so I come up and I go
I meet up with him. He's also the national area
Dalant like confirm the dope on this gun. I mean it is a made it's the same gun that I shot in the go time series for for origin in Jakofio
And so I confirm the dope on it go out to 300 confirm go to 500 like Dalin the dope he says that I should be having
And there's these five targets and I shoot from
Left to right and it's getting smaller each target as you're going down on my boom
Like working my way last one
I like I pause guys. I see the wind kind of picking up a little bit
And it wasn't just a win like in front of the target, but like I'm like looking at the wind the whole way down there
So I just hold off the right edge of the target boom, ding center mask and the and he's like man
That's nice and the guy next to
It's guy gets pissed off. He's like I've been trying to shoot that target for two months and I have never hit it
It was a two and a half inch target at 500 yards and I'm boom dead center
That is a half minute of angle gun that he built for me. I mean it is and this is or shoot in
Factory off the shelf ammo that you can buy it for many where 6.5 Creedmore
Beautiful weapon
So I'm like man, this is amazing so we shoot a little bit more well he doesn't tell the guy
Like my background like in the guy was like the suit first time shooting this guy on my guy
You just you know and so we hang out
We go grab some food on my command kind of get you some like can we get launch or whatever? It's a gas we go grab some food
And I'm again super tight, but I'm like and like he just built me this amazing
I'm gonna use biom lunch and I'm like trying calculate gas money to get back and everything as well
And yeah, I know he's always done construction and he was talking me about some jobs and I said hey
If you ever need help with any of your jobs
I would love to work with you. I love construction. I love working with my hands
I was like and I could use the work if if you need it
He said okay. Yeah, man. I appreciate it and I like I drive back and I think I followed up with them
I said man thanks again. This gun is amazing. This is like ridiculous
I was like I owe you big time. He's like no man. You know only anything. He's I just really appreciate your service and he's like it's you know
You deserve to have a you're a bad ass sniper that should have a bad ass sniper rifle. I'm like well I'm not a bad ass sniper
But I appreciate the bad ass sniper rifle and he hits me up and he's like hey, you know
Do you still want to work construction with me? He was like I could do something we could do something on Wednesday
Thursday Friday
I said yeah absolutely
And so we start that and tour and this is I'm still like I'm doing my brief like every day
I am rehearsing my echelon front keynote
Legitimately at this time 46 hours a day like Amanda like I'd be in my office
I'd be in I would pick different locations in our house in a Mississippi when we got back together
We were in a two bedroom house that was
I mean this probably the square footage of this podcast recording room and the locker room next to us
That was about the size of the whole house two bedrooms
You know we had no kitchen because that I mean we had a kitchen we had no dining room area because that's where the office was
We would eat in the living room on TV trays like you know that was where we'd have our family dinner
Like we didn't actually sit at a table and less we went over to our in-laws and so
I would be practicing my keynote 46 hours a day Legitimately like going through it listening to lace
Keynote clicking along like making it my own kind of doing some tweaks talking with you in life here and there
And then
This opportunity for me to start working with my buddy Jared I said yeah absolutely
So I would wake up at three in the morning on Wednesday and I would drive up to to Nashville from from South
Haven Mississippi where we live well there's like a three three and a half hour drive. I'll guess what?
That was three repetitions through the keynote
So I would be driving I'd have my laptop
Add an angle so I'd put my backpack in front of the passenger seat. I put my laptop at an angle
And I had the clicker and while I was driving I would list I was playing life
Audio of the keynote while I was clicking through and watching the slides
As I'm driving and just kind of listening and getting like the flow down and I would do that and I would
I would
Get up there. I'd work construction with him and then I he had a a bed up in his attic that I would crash in and so I'd crash there
We'd get down with the dad do another like two hours of rehearsing. I'd wake up a few hours early
I would do a few hours of rehearsing in the morning go work construction with him and I would do this
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Friday. I would drive back and then I would spend some time with the man in the kids
Well my buddy Lee opened up a mark was pizza in South tape him
We used to work at the financial company together he invested in the franchise and
So of course, man and I were supporting him were there. We're like, oh, this is awesome the kids like this pizza's really good
I'm like yeah, this is awesome. I'm like hey, Lee this is great. I'm super proud of you this is awesome
I said hey if you ever need help like with drivers
Let me know he's like oh man you don't want to be doing that. I'm like no, it's fine
I was like if you ever need help just let me know like I would love to help you
And he kind of like we went back and forth and I found I was like hey
If you need some help with a driver
I would like to be a delivery driver for you. He's like oh
Hey, man, yeah, I could actually I could actually use a good reliable like driver that would be great
And I'm like okay cool man. I had like the absolute probably nicest vehicle of any delivery driver at the time
I was my 2015 Toyota Tondra that would lift it
And I
Was awesome so I would do the construction with Jared Wednesday Thursday Friday doing the rehearsals in the morning rehearsals in the evening
When I drive back on Friday
It was another three hours of doing the rehearsals through the keynote
I would see a man in the kids that she usually be over at her parents at this time
I would go back home
I would take a quick shower. I would throw my polo throw my marcos pizza hat
I would go in I'd clock in and I would deliver pizzas until midnight and then after midnight
Most drivers would leave and I was like hey, I can help close out the
The store because I needed that extra hour of minimum wage because that extra 625
Was I was like I will take anything and everything I can at this moment
And so I would that's what I would do I would deliver pizzas on the weekend and then I would be I would come home from delivering pizzas around
130 tuition in the morning by time we got done cleaning up the kitchen and I would get online and see if anybody ordered any never settle
T-shirts and
Because we had talked about on the podcast there's a good amount of orders that started to come through
And so I would fulfill orders until three or four in the morning and I would crawl into bed with a man the kids and
She would wake me up like when the kids would get up she would get me a cup of coffee and I would that's why I would spend some time with them
On Saturday and Sunday we go to church and I would you know do the same thing in the evenings and yeah, I was doing construction
My landlord had some fences that he needed repaired on some of his rent also
I would go do that and I would exchange him rent instead of paying rent. I remember one time I and this was at the very beginning
I am and Jamie's like hey you have a gig that's gonna be in March
You know the client wants to do a pre-avent call with you. I'm like okay awesome and so I I was sitting
I I stopped doing some fixing fences at this person's house
I went and sat in the car and I did my pre-avent call with the client
Got down with it took all my notes took a picture of it emailed it to myself
So I could have like an email copy the photo copy at the digital copy of the notes of my phone
I had everything and went back and finished
Repairing these fences so I could exchange
rent for a couple months with the landlord and
Yeah, I was doing everything everything I could and then
You were Jamie reach out and said hey, Jocco is gonna be doing a thing in Nashville how far away is that from you?
I said well I'm gonna be right up there. I'm actually helping a buddy and so I reached out to my buddy and
Jaren I said hey, you know I believe it was like hey next week
Do you mind if I take a day off like could I miss out on Thursday?
And he said yeah absolutely what's going on? I said well Jocco's doing an event. I'm gonna be yeah
I need to go with him and he said yeah, I do
He's a big fan of yours listens to podcasts and
And he was like yeah anything you need but me know and so I was working construction with him
God done with my day
Came met up with you at the hotel we did our rehearsals which were
Austin seeing you do their rehearsals and then you were trying to like have me do rehearsals and I was just
The whole big brother effect like I couldn't even like talk in front of Jocco in the room. I just
Yeah, it was too much
So we go do the event and I remember
I thought I was gonna be early and I texted you and I said hey
Headed that way where do you want to meet like I'm think I'm a cool. I'll be a little early
And you said I'm sitting in the front the one of the front tables already
Okay, Jocco gets there really early
And so I remember that was the major lesson for me from that little interaction was
Anytime you're doing something with a client
It's about an hour ahead of time and
You explained to me the reason why is because you have to go through all the different you know
You want to make sure that everything's loaded properly and I didn't know that you'd been down that there that early
I'm like okay
So I go I said the same thing I record your keynote and
It was on the dot to the hour like
Our hit right as you were doing you're closing like thank you slide
That's depressing
And you knew it and you knew it and so you come off stage and the guy goes up on stage. He's like man
Must be a Navy seal thing
60 minutes on the dot and everyone's like oh
Like just you know plotting and you know it was it was a really cool
And I remember you said you're like man when you hit that mark when you hit the mark within a minute
It's like you come in down on a free fall jump and you hit the X on the drop zone
Like it feels so good you just hit that and I was like okay timing you know
I just I'm taking all these like notes as I'm interacting with you and life and listening and I'm like okay timing like that's
Obviously very important for what we're doing and and so I
We go to a breakout and
They wanted you to do another little breakout training and
I asked you I'm like well, what are you gonna do you're like?
I'm just gonna open up and talk and like oh okay you're like but I have slides
In case nobody is talking interacting that I can talk through that will get engagement and if not then I'm just getting
I'm gonna give another brief on some other things that I think are as important for their business
So that right there is a primary plan secondary internship
Yep 100% and these are all the things that I'm like in my mind like relating back to military
And it was cool because I was seeing like the change in my mindset like I could feel it
I was excited I was engaged. I felt like I was planning operations like we did in a
Remoddy I felt like it was just I was having that sense of fulfillment again
And that's what a lot of people struggle with and you and I have talked about this a lot and I know life and I have talked about this a lot
Veterans and first responders and law enforcement officers and firefighters and EMS
They struggle when they don't have that sense of purpose anymore and if you want to take it out
Like you said it's humans in general. Look at college athletes, right? They think they're gonna go to the professionals and then they don't
And what do they do?
It's like one or the other they either thrive in a civilian world and they find a job with a purpose and they can do all that drive and they're hard
All the hard work ethics that they had to bring them to that high level college athlete level or
They just everything falls apart and there is like they're like Napoleon Dynamite uncle who's talking about
Hey, if coach would have put me in we would have won. It's like
Okay, cool. Yeah, probably not did and so I just remember this this change in my mindset starting to happen
When I was just around it again, and I was thinking of like this is what I need to be doing and so I do that day with you
And you brought me up to interact and and provide
You know some
Responses and answers to different questions that were coming about and I remember I felt really comfortable up there
Like I wasn't nervous like when I was sitting in the hotel room with you like just trying to go through the slides
I was you know, it was horrible
I wish we would have like video footage of some of that because that would be a awesome
I also we had that too because
And now this is like the big joke at echelon front that everybody when they have to brief me sucks
It's a disaster and it's like they freak out and then everyone's awesome and and actually
You know when you spoke at the master for the first time you're we went through the rehearsal
And it was just a total disaster and you and see I had work with you a trade at and so I'd seen you briefed on a ton and I knew what you're gonna do
But you walked out of the room and life is like bro
So I'll do it. I don't know and I go he'll help knock this thing out. He's gonna crush this thing
I go he just freaks out in front of me and he's like Roger that
You see I said you know we'll do it the other thing that sucks about this whole thing is
You know you were going through like again. I just need I just have to point this out because it's such a good leadership lesson to learn
For me and for everybody you're going through like these real struggles of
Driving all this way working construction or for delivering freaking pizza you're doing all that and I don't know it
I think you're teaching you like you know you're in Mississippi. I'm in California look yeah you you you you
You teach you to I know you and people pay you to teach you and I'm like okay cool you know
He's gonna do that. I'm not even it's not even entering my mind
That you have a freaking pizza hat on and you're delivering pizza. That's not even entering my mind
You never said a word about it and I didn't I didn't dig enough
To be like hey bro
How is this work and how is everything going you know and that's totally my fault for not
Understanding and not doing enough research and
Not having a good enough relationship with you where you'd be like bro you know what I
I'm gonna have trouble paying rent
This month like if I would have known that I would have been like oh cool no actually you're gonna have no trouble playing month
Rent ever again here watch this game over done and
Yeah, so that sucks and the weird thing is I'm trying to think like what puts you into this mindset and then what I
Realize what puts you into this mindset is there's a lot of people that
They they read extreme ownership or they come to the master or they they listen to the podcast and what they think is
Yeah, you know, I wish that person would have ownership and I wish this person would act that way and they start
They start thinking about how everyone else should take ownership and so in this process where I would love for you to say to me
Hey, hey, Jocco I need a little bit of like to make ends meet and and give me a stable base right now
Can you help me out what I would love to say that I would love to have had you say that to me
What you're thinking is this is my fault. I'm gonna fix it and it was 100% my fault
100% and I was on the path of fixing it
Because of good opportunities that I had from my buddy Jared my buddy Steve, you know, that I was teaching shooting
You know, I was I was
Doing construction lead allowing me to come deliver pizzas like these were great opportunities that I had and I was in my landlord
willing to trade oh you want to you want to replace some fences and and do some maintenance on on some of the properties like to trade out rent
Okay, like these are opportunities that were actually helping and then fulfilling
Online t-shirt orders these were all things that were making ends meet that
I'm
Like I don't think
If I would have come to you and said hey, I'm how and you're like hey don't worry about this
I don't think that would have made the situation better honestly
I don't because I don't think that makes any situation better for anybody
It's you have to grind you have to work through these things and if you allowed yourself to get in a situation
You have to get yourself out of the situation
You absolutely have to get yourself out of the situation. I understand what you're saying from a leadership standpoint
I get that a hundred percent but
This was something that I had to get myself out of because
It doesn't you can't achieve success for somebody else
They have to do it themselves. They have to actually want to do it themselves
Yeah, and you know what I don't want to do is make people think hey
JP sucked it up and I'm gonna suck it up to and and as I was just thinking through this
You look you are in a really bad spot, but you actually
Your head we still above water right it was tough you were treading water hard
but
If it got to a point I would hope that if it got to a point where
You know you are gonna be homeless or whatever you would have been like hey a jocco
Here's what's going on man and I would have been like hey Roger that and you would probably said listen
I need to I need to I need to loan I need money right now and I'll pay you back or whatever, but right now
This is what I'm at and so so maybe it's the fact that
as
Low as you got you didn't quite get to a point where you were drowning and as long as you weren't drowning
You're like hey, I'm gonna figure this out. Yes, I still I'm telling you I still wouldn't have come to you and asked for that
Because I don't think that's a right answer. I put in actually a thing at lows to do loss prevention
Right and I guess I wasn't qualified enough
Because I didn't get the job at lows to do loss prevention and I knew you know what the other thing I could have done
That I actually had talked to a man about was like hey once you and a man you want to you and the kids go to sleep
I can go restock the shelves at Walmart. I do go do that for four or five hours every single night
Get a cup, you know, I could get enough sleep throughout the day to make those things happen and these were legitimate
Conversations that we had that I could do the other thing is you know
I and I was looking to get back into the military for a while
That's one of the times I actually called you actually I sent you a tweet and I said hey give me a call and you're like
Why didn't you just text me? I said well
Because I know if you saw that you give me a call and people would say why is he saying give me a call and they would
Like sway some social media followers when you come see what I was doing
But I was actually trying to get back and this is before all this was trying to get back in the military for a while
There's a I had enough options. I had there's there's plenty of options for me to go out
I'm saying you didn't act you weren't actually drowning no, you know, but what I'm saying is if if there's someone listening right now
That's like drowning then you ask then you have to ask for help and you know what man
I have had friends mutual friends of ours people that we know
People that you don't know that I mean, you know whatever
I've had plenty of friends that have come to me and been like hey man
This is what's going on and and I need some help and I've been like Roger
You know that's what I talked about when I opened this up like I've had plenty of people come to me and say
This is what's going on. I need help and I've said Roger that what do you need? I mean
Dude, I had Seth Seth was Seth was freaking buying a house and he was like hey
Whatever 38 thousand dollars short and then I also need money in my bank account to show that I have the reserves and
All was like cool come pick up a check like done no no questions asked not not like what's the payment?
Plans like no done done deal. Yeah, done deal no factor and
You know that I think that's
I just want to make sure people aren't thinking like hey
Just don't ever come ask for help if you're
If you're trading water and you're above water and you can still make some progress
Awesome. Yes. I told Lee agree figure it out
But if you're gonna drown
You need you need to put your hand up and you need to ask for help
That's what you need to do that that's what your friends are there for yeah. No, I
I understand what you're saying and I definitely could have
Rews out I didn't feel that I needed you like you said I wasn't drowning and I have no problem
Doing whatever I have to do to make ends meet and I will like I mean there was one time just in the neighborhood like
I just had the idea and so what I did is I
Asked people if they wanted their addresses spray painted on the curb and from their mailbox so is easy to identify
And I went around doing that
And yeah, I mean I get to get the template do the white paint down that kind of dry put the template over it
Spray paint their address. That was easy boom quit cash would go around and I would do that sometime how much was you charged for that?
$25 check
Yeah
Go do it enough for those you know here you're okay, but you know what does it take 15 minutes?
Maybe yeah, so you're talking to Hunter bucks an hour maybe yeah, maybe 15
Now the first couple of times it was like I need to actually process
So that was you know at the very beginning like you said you didn't know and then Jamie says hey
December 15 December 14th we you're gonna have your first gig you're gonna be doing a keynote
It's 110 people
It's their company. It's safety stand down
um and
It's like okay cool and it's gonna be in an auditorium and
and
So I was I was excited about that, but you know little nervous like okay
What am I gonna be doing for this first time and yeah, I was again practicing my keynote at this time about
Six to seven sometimes eight hours a day any free moment I had if I had a free hour I was doing it
I was I was doing the like the keynote just listening to your video
Listen to life's audio. I'd go back and forth between the two audios. I had my brief put together and then I started to to make it my own right and
I remember the first time that I had to it was over Skype. I was gonna give the presentation to you in life
Amanda was like okay her and the kids were gonna be gone. I stacked up all this stuff in my living room
To the computer would be I level took everything off the walls behind me. I had my clicker had everything and we did the keynote
I did it for you guys. I was like right at the at the hour mark so I was like excited that I had hit that time
and then we did Q&A and I remember
It was I was proud of myself when when life said
JP you've obviously done a good amount of prep for this that was a good job now. We'll just do some mock Q&A and
Like that was the feedback that I got for me guys
Because I had I don't even know how many hours of this presentation I had worked through I mean
There's a lay-flist thinking you did like three hours of practice, but you did three thousand
Close to it, you know, I mean
I mean
hundreds of hours
Legitimately of just planning and and just going through it and just making sure that I knew and I would I would make it to where like
Even like if I didn't I I wanted to be able to do it to where I if I couldn't see the advanced slide like I would practice different ways
Where the computer was behind me like representing the screen and I would I would I would do that and I would get into my little rhythm of like
Hey, as you can see to make sure I was still on the right slide
Practice using reflections off of like pictures or mirrors and stuff to see where I was at on stuff behind me
Just try to put myself in bad situations so that I could go through it and then I did that that first keynote
It was in Denver Colorado and you know, it was also this is in December December 14th
So it was October November December so so that those were like you struggled in through and then finally here comes your first gig
Get my first gig
I remember when I got there like I took a picture of all the line up because there's their safety stand-down thing
And so that all these other speakers there and every other one of them was like doctor doctor PhD doctor
Like all this less than JP to know
Like what is JP what's a JP what's JP stand for
And I remember I sent you that picture to you in life and
And
Your response was something along the lungs of better get used to that and I was just awesome, you know
And then so I go down there there's a break before I talk I get my computer set up
I have my water have like everything kind of like set up for me
About halfway through the audio like the the sound goes out in this place microphone goes out. I'm like okay
Well, it was an auditorium sound like cool just project
Well, I just remember like
Everyone like being on their phones while I'm talking and I'm
Like oh my gosh like this I suck like I suck and then it clicked
They would get on their phones every time I clicked the next slide so that they could take notes
You remember like people are using their phones are using technology people are taking pictures
They're typing in the notes and then when they done they would put their phone away and it was just that that moment of like fear
And then it like I was able to put it together
God done
Give the keynote
Went and had lunch with the buddy
The company requested like hey if you can hang out we'd like to have like cab dinner
So I went back met up with them and then the next day I flew back and
Yeah, had nothing for December the rest of December and then my next gig was in was in January
And so I was going down key west Florida. I'm like this is awesome. So go down there
Fly down to key west or it flight down to one of the airports and then it was like an hour and a half
Uber ride down to where I was going to be at
Went to the event was kind of doing my research like wanted to find the room that we're gonna be talking in
And I use my credit card to Jimmy open the door because there was like
You know order like hotel and QS Florida like easy to break into everything there so use my credit card get in
I'd go into the check out the room that I'm gonna be speaking in there's nothing set up at all and I'm I don't think it will
We start it like seven a.m
And so I text upon a contact them and I said hey, there's like there's nothing set up in the room here
Then the response was like I thought you were bringing everything and
And so there's some major miscommunication there and I said well no
I brought my computer and the adapters and the like the clicker
Everything else is supposed to be on you guys and the guy who I was super nice
He's like oh he had been who's I dinner with the group they had bought I've been drinking as he comes in
I kind of showed him a room he's like
So what do we need I'm like we need a screen a projector a power source and so we went down to the
Front desk and like was talking somebody what's it like work work like 11 o'clock at this point in time
And so we kind of told him like hey, this is what we need and they're like what we can't do anything like we start at seven
And the guy in the guy said okay, we we've
Rented out this many rooms for this many days like this needs to happen and the front desk lady was like okay
Let me see what I can do. We're in found this guy that could help us out and we got everything set up that night
And that was for me was like this
Confirmation of why it's important to do your recon and why you should take the extra time
Go check out the situation gain as much situation awareness as you can before you go into
An environment and I'm glad that I did because if I we would have done it the next morning nothing would have been set up and so everything got set up
I'm doing a half day workshop and
It was like my second gig. I'm doing a half day workshop solo
And I remember like trying to talk with you in life. I'm like how do you guys do work? She'll hop like what am I doing? You guys gave me the template
we talked through it and
Major lesson learned of a failure on my part is make sure you're watch sinks with the new time zone
Because I'm like oh I'm on time. I'm good to go. Oh, you go from Mississippi to Florida
There's an hour difference and
I went over 47 minutes over my time that I supposed to have and I remember one of the guys like hey
You can be getting done soon. I'm like yeah, you know we've got like
20 minutes. I'll be wrapping it up because you're supposed to be done 40 minutes ago
What am I
My watch didn't change time zones
That's 100% my fault for not sinking that I'm like okay give me give me one minute and so I go
I changed like my PowerPoint slides around. I just go straight to the closing and I just you know talk
They were super cool. They were good with it. They were loving it, but you know
It's a corporate retreat for them. So they had other stuff that they were supposed to be going through
And I just I address the group and I said hey, you know what I completely failed on the time like this is what happened
You know hey here's a recap of the day. We kind of talked through everything and I closed it out and it was good to go and
And you know so I go and out and I said hey, you know, do you have
confirmation of the car service that so send that he's like no it all and I'm like
Okay, so I tried to call it in and
Jamie to see and they weren't available and as I was a calm man. I'm like that's gonna be a really expensive Uber
I don't know if I have it and so I got the Uber and it was like
It was like a hundred and thirty dollar Uber to get back and I had like a hundred and forty dollars in that PayPal account
And it was like okay cool go back well when I'm flying back. It's Amanda and I is anniversary
And it was it was snowing in Mississippi when I get back and so we spend a little bit of time together and
I shoot Leah taxed my K
Do you need a driver tonight my truck is full will drive he said it's isn't your anniversary I said
Do you need a driver he said when can he be here and so I told him I said hey do you care if I
Know it's our anniversary, but we need the money. I'm gonna go deliver pizza. She's like okay
You know it's fully supportive of it and
And so that was a super humbling moment when you do for I need to give Amanda more hugs next time I see her because she should be
Hating me right now going
You cheap people to make this money overseas. We would be soon right now. I can't believe this guys us
Now
I'm gonna give her a big old hug next time. I see your answer tell her thank you for putting up with me
Because dang
Yeah, so are my get to the conversation that we had very short like you Amanda and I had a conversation like I think it was the same month so
We're in is this is beginning a January and so
You know I go and I change out and you know she goes over to her parents to hang out and
I
Started delivering pizzas, you know and he put a he put a
Social media post he said hey it was a picture of his truck and my truck in front of Marko's pizza
He said
You shouldn't be driving but we can let us something along those lines and we were I may I was delivering pizzas until one I am
I mean we were non stop delivering pizzas and you know I was doing that for the tip money
You know we need that extra tip and I would make
You know about 300 dollars in tips, you know, I just I make good tip money. I was super polite and you know
Franchalty to people but it was just I remember I was going up to this one house to deliver and it's just beautiful house in Mississippi
Big old house
and it was you know very wealthy
Family I go up there and
It was just this wreck like I recognized
Like where I was still a lot because I was still on this like I'm JP to know with echelon front
I was just in a nice suit and Kiwis Florida giving a leadership speech, you know
I gave this workshop
But you know what they don't know that nobody knows who I am because I'm wearing a
Marko's pizza polo and a
Hat delivering their pizza and I just remember it's like thinking like man
I really need to make this work with echelon front like I really need to make sure I'm doing what I need to do and not just like
Make it work like hey, I'm available for work like do you have opportunity like let me know what I need but I need to make a work like I need to be in the game
I need to be leveling up and
It was just and that's just kind of where it was at and so I don't I don't I had one other event that month in January and that was out in Philadelphia
And that was again a great company learned a lot with them
It was a half-day workshop. They sure my phone was synced and my watch was synced with the time zones and the schedule went well and you know
I flew back and
I don't I don't think I really had any thing and in February and so I was still same thing like I'm delivering pizzas
I'm doing construction. I'm I'm doing whatever I can and during this time frame
Has some opportunities to help teach shootings. So I'm doing that as well and
You know March rolls around there's that's what I hear
You'd be like hey, I'm gonna. I'm awesome man. Sounds like everything's going awesome. Yeah, me too
Just like I thought I was a calm man. That's a kind of a cool deal. Yeah, absolutely so I go
You know, I'm teaching I'm helping teach shooting on my birthday for a training company that was near the Memphis area
and
You know just hey I think I had like a few events. I think in March with echelon front
A little bit in April. I was like one or two gigs, right? Well, this thing that I did in December in January
None of those pay I didn't get paid for those until like April or May because well
You don't get paid until echelon front gets paid and that's a principle in a concept that I know like why would they pay me if they haven't gotten paid?
I
You know I remember life like making sure I understood that he's like you can be out of my camera
Go with that like I came from sales in a financial industry where that's what we did we actually helped
People get paid before they got paid and so I understood it and I was good with it. I was doing all this other work and
I remember one time I sent you a picture of I was I was working construction with Jared and it was
Eight degrees outside like I took a screenshot of the temp and the
And me doing this brick or we're doing some block work on this really nice house and
Um, you said make sure you save that because you're not gonna be in that situation next year
And I saved it and I saved that like that picture and
So I was you know doing what I could and I met this
I met these brothers at a shooting course that I did and they're like hey if you ever do like your own like we love to do is like in it like
Just some
Specific specialized training with you and I'm like okay cool and
They followed up with me like hey let me know if you have anything and I I felt weird like doing my own thing considering
I was helping my buddies do their thing that was kind of customized and I let my buddy know and he's like
Dude if people are asking you to do stuff like you and if you're doing it through your company like whatever that's fine
And so I put together this really high end
shooting experience where it was a day of
Pistol a day of rifle and a day of long range shooting and it was at this really nice house
It Mississippi on 700 acres in this beautiful huge house like there's a
Lake in front of the house like the sun rose. I mean it was an amazing experience and
That was the first like high end type of thing that I did and
Man it made a difference right and there's you know another company that you know asked me to kind of do like a
Shooting day with their company for some team building and
Like it was same situation where I was like man. I don't
I don't know how I'm gonna make rent and it was a complete god thing because the guy hit me up he said hey
I have a check for you. I want to make sure this gets paid to you before we do the training. I was like
Okay, where are you at? I can meet you and I remember I drove to go meet with him and I looked at check at the bank
And I'm like cool. I'm gonna go straight to that bank and cash it there and
Like I went and I remember the bank was like oh there's gonna be like a
$50 cashing fee
I'm like $50 a cat. I'm like that's ridiculous and I'm like, yeah
So I was kind of like talking through and I was like hey, I'm a small business
Like this is like part of my business and like it's like oh wave at this time. I'm like thank you
You know, I was like man you've taken $50 come on. I was you know small is a small community bank
A Mississippi but anyways our Tennessee and so
Get through all that time and it's just you know making ends meet a man in the kids are being so supportive and we had a conversation with you
I remember we dropped off the kids at school and
We were talking and we're driving in my tundra and we're we're headed to the gym and
We're just kind of having this conversation where you you told a man who like hey
When this picks up for J.P. He's gonna miss a lot of stuff
He goes and you need to understand that he's probably not gonna be there for their preschool graduation
He's probably not gonna be there for the kindergarten graduation
He's gonna miss some birthdays. He's gonna miss the man in verse rees
But if you guys are willing to just like
Grow with us right now. He's like it's it's gonna be a solid three to five years before
Any of us really take a break if that's what you want and I'm just like nod my hand
I hear toss it at this point. I'm guessing that I started to see some kind of trajectory with the demand signal for you
Yes, I started to see like hey, okay, this is because I knew where I was at which was mayhem
Yes, and the more mayhem I have the more mayhem everyone else has yes
You know, there's a little lag time behind it, but that's the way. Yeah, so this was so this was right before that
This is right before I spoke at mustard zero zero two which was
May of of 2017 and so
There wasn't that get crazy demand for me, but you knew it was gonna be there because if people request in joccon life and that they can't afford joccon life
They get JP to know
and
And you saw that kind of starting to happen and you just kind of set the expectations
And Amanda was like I have no problem with this and you're like, okay, I just you know
We want to make sure and then this is about the time that you guys brought on Dave Burke and deal to good deal Dave
And we did our first event together in April
oh
I want to say April 26 or 27th somewhere in that time frame we did our first event together
And it's cool because when we met up it was like it was weird we just gave each other like this big like this bro hug and I was like hey man
It's like good to meet you and actually be working with you and he was like me just
Beyond excited for the opportunity and that night we we sat and we went through the brief together
We rehearsed it a couple times the next day. We woke up early. We knocked out a workout
We rehearsed the brief you know a couple times and of what we're gonna be doing and it was funny because the client was like
Oh, how long have you guys been working with each other and David and I kind of laughed and they like you know on and off, you know since 2006
Mostly off like we do you know
But the client you know just it was happy to have that David and I for this event
We did this full day workshop and it was awesome and
for me what I what I learned from that event with Dave was
just humility of
Dave being the super high ranking Marine Corps officer with the pedigree background that he had for what he did in the military the Marine Corps
as a top gun pilot
You know just I mean he's good deal Dave for a reason and for him to be asking me like my ideas
And hey, what do you think and how do you want to run this and what's your thoughts on this?
I hate you been doing a little bit longer than me
And I'm just like in my mind I'm like well, yeah, I've been here a couple months longer than he was not like I've been flooded with work brother
like I'm just but he just showed
Just complete humility and for us to be able to work together and you know just just cover and move for each other
It was awesome. We've we read off of each other
like we had been working together for
a decade plus it was really cool and
and
You know just us knocking out the workout together in the morning and then us just doing the workshop and then us head now
It was it was really cool and then it's just to me and met a lot that you know Dave could have come in
You know, he's you got his all of his degrees and his educational background and everything
He did the Marine Corps and you know the business degrees and I think he could have come in and be like
Hey, this is what we're gonna be doing like hey, I had a talk with Dr. alcohol life and I would have been like Roger that sir
Like the check like I know my place. I'm good with this but it was the exact opposite which
That's what good leaders do and
I just I knew that he exemplified everything that you and life had talked about
From day one and that's why I was like okay, this is this is a guy that I'll do anything with I'll do anything for him
Like the fact that I get to work with him and fire it up and then
Muster 0 0 2 happen and Dave and I both spoke and I was like bang that guy can talk like his his
Utilup brief was incredible and
We just we bonded at that at that mustard and just being able to see you and life grow from the first mustard
The second mustard. I was like oh wow that's
It's impressive it was just it was just getting evolving and getting better and more powerful and dynamic and
At that point that was when I was gonna
Start getting more work and it was after I spoke with that mustard
That's when things really started a book and get busy and
It was it was a busy year 2017. You know mustard 0 0 3 happened
And and yeah, it was it was really cool to kind of see that that growth and progression happen
And it was just turned an in burning yep
Anything and everything I remember Jamie would say hey I've got a gig
They don't have the budget for what we're charging for you and I say yes
She's like well, I'm like yeah
He got to the point where Jamie would call him to hey, you know
She's like already know what your answer is gonna be but I just want I'm like yes
Look it good hey, this is a free event, but it could open up other opportunities book it like I didn't care
I literally anything and everything I was saying yes to because that's how you should be
In my opinion like you if you're JP to know with that opportunity in front of you
Who the hell do you think you are to be picky about anything?
I didn't care and there was still this delay in pay right there's still you know for the events and and everything
I was like that, but like I knew where we were going
That vision was very clear that that's another six cents when I look back on it
I remember having a conversation with you and you're like hey, I want to talk to you about the way that we get paid
It seems like we should maybe do and you had this whole like pitch to me about
You know you could get advanced from the client
You you this whole pitch to me about basically what a well-down to is how how
Then structures could get paid faster, which is only two instructors and I was just kind of like I was like bro
Like looking back I see what you were trying to say you needed money now
I was just looking at you going bro who cares you'll get paid you know whatever you'll get that money then whenever
To me you I go JP I don't even know I don't even know when I got paid for whatever
I remember you telling me that I'm on the inside
You said that and I remember on the inside going oh
Oh
That's a nice situation
Yeah, I'm not in that situation
Yeah, and it's funny because now it's like oh I definitely remember telling you like hey
I don't even know when I got paid for what doesn't even I don't even don't even recognize it and you are like
Roger
You know there's probably a little bit of an indication to me
But I knew it couldn't have been that far off. You know I must have been looking at it going yeah
He's gonna be here and very short period of time. Yeah, and again just bad leadership on my part
No, not at all. No, that's it. It was just now again if my communication would have been a little more clear with you
And if I would have said Joko hey the reason why I'm talking about us being able to do this is because boom boom
But your your reason in lace reason was very valid like for you to do that
You're giving up a percentage of your pay for that advance and the company didn't need it
You guys didn't need it and you knew in the very near future
Was not gonna be an issue was gonna be no factor now
So it's 2017. This is all happening. Yeah
That makes sense to me like how you especially with your personality
But even like without necessarily your specific personality like you don't want to like as a team member
enthusiastic new team member and you have that like kind of attitude or whatever like non
And you know how you have entitled attitude you have the exact opposite yours
You're attitude and it's kind of extreme, but even if it's not that extreme
I understand that you come and you don't want to be
You don't want to start presenting burdens to like the team like oh my my financial like hey
Let's do this because of my personal financial situation, you know, yeah, and it was ideas to where if it made sense to them
We would execute on it, right, but I like I know life in Joko well enough to her if I present something to them
And if they see the value and if it makes sense they'll do it if they don't see the value and if it doesn't make sense to the company
Then why would they do that and I understood that so I I didn't care either way
It was like hey if we did this it would be beneficial if we don't do it
Whatever like we'll be good to go. I'll be okay. Yeah, but and you know how like
Especially if
Like the ideally you want to be the team player that's like the easiest to work with and then of course
The one that executes and does a good job for sure, but what if like what if your team member that you executed well?
You did your job 100% and you excelled in it and you're really valuable
But
Every time you did a job you sort of complain about it for like three four minutes before you did it and then you do it
But you just complain about it you'd always sort of have that, you know just for example
I'm gonna say you'd ever do that obviously, but let's just say for example
Where someone like you and I think it's normal to be like men
I don't want to bring that burden to this team that I respect so much
So I'm gonna like work so hard to keep it from them
It's like you know the idea that okay my financial situation is not jocquist problem
It's not and in fact I don't even want him worried about that
So I'm gonna in a way I'm gonna hide it from him a little bit
Yeah, I'm gonna keep it from him and I'm gonna just all I'm gonna present to jocquist for his perception is
Me doing a good job 100% that's it
But and it's also the mindset that it's nobody else's responsibility to fix my situation other than myself
Yeah, and it is nobody's responsibility
Yeah, now if I'm a
contributing member of a team that they value guess what I get paid according Lee I know that right and the one of the things that I've always tried to be is like
Hey, you should be working so hard and
And provide so much value to a team that if the team and I've told this to a lot of companies
We've done workshops with during Q&A the last world. What about this in this and if I can tie this answer into it
I think it's important for people to hear and understand it's like you want to be that person on the team toward if your company has to
start cutting back
Every time they see your name on the list they're like nope and needs to be bumped up a little bit nope and needs to be bumped up a little bit
And that's just kind of like the mindset I've always tried to have of just being that
Contributing member of a team and and not him not me
At the end of the day also this is nothing for me to complain about because I also know
That my worst day is somebody's dream
Yeah, I mean
Have you I'm sure this probably happened you on a few a year to playments. I know it's happened to Mike's really I've asked him about it
It happened on mine have you ever had somebody where they tried to give you their kids for you to take off target or take out of
Or wherever you're at like try to give you the kids
Think about that. I mean you and I know how you are with kids
Instructor and this will probably make you emotional like it does me when I talk about this is
On my deployments
Everyone and it's only three so it's not like a lot. You know not like Mike's really where I like like
Actual GIG rambo hero right the 11 combat deployments
Is where you would have a family
Try to give their kids to you like they're asking you to take that did that never happened to me. Oh
They didn't who are they are trying to like saying hey, can you please take the kids with you?
Yeah, I got him like like trying to protect the kids, you know like get the kids over here
Okay, I've had anyone trying to where say hey take take the kids and keep them safe. Yes, I'm sorry for most of us
Can you take them back to base with you?
Can you take them back to base with you? You gotta think about that like I'm I
We're all parents in here. I mean I would never trust a stranger with my kids
I mean there's some family members. I have them like now. We're good. You don't need a lot of kids like I'm very protective of my kids
And to think that there are people that live in a situation
They live in an environment that's so bad
That they know that their kid could have a better life if they were to
America with us and obviously that's not a reality. We can't just take kids back to the United States with us to provide safety and security
But you know, it's just something that's all I've always kind of thought about is my worst day is somebody's dream
Like the things that we can complain about
People would love to have those
Those problems and so that was just another reminder that I have to myself and like hey like your life's not bad
Man you live in America
You know, you have a house. You have a vehicle. Yeah, you're struggling. Make ends meet
But guess what you're the jackass to put yourself in that situation get yourself out of it
Yeah, and that's it. That's obviously a good attitude to have for sure
Especially comes as naturally as it seems like it does with you
I mean I don't think that comes as naturally for maybe the typical person even though yes
I think a lot of us do
Reminder cells, you know that kind of stuff and it does help a lot
Well, it's a I guess it's unfair because I have the advantage of seeing what I've seen on the point
It's and both my parents worked their butts off
They never come I never we never heard our parents complaining about the work that they had to do
There's times where my mom would would wake us up at like four in the morning because she had to go teach step-of-robex at five a.m
And so she would wake up all the kids and my dad was leaving to go do construction all day
So you can't leave the kids at home, so she would wake us up. We should get us ready for school
Knowing that we're gonna go back to sleep. We would go to the gym the fitness center or the club whatever
She was working at we would sleep in daycare or sleep in the office while she would teach her classes
She would then get us up
Feed us some breakfast drop-up off that school and go back and work pick us up from school
We'd hang out at the club or the fitness center or wherever she was working at doing our school work there and
Tell she got done teaching then we go home. She'd make dinner for our family and by that time my dad would be coming home
And it was just you can make excuses or you can make things happen. You can't do both
That's what I've always loved that saying I always try to share that with people is because I think too many people
Are comfortable with making excuses. Yeah, and like I said my mindset was starting to shift and change
Working with you in life. I mean, and now I'm working with Dave Burke and you and I are seeing each other work when we did that field training exercise
Out in New Jersey with in life and I did that with that company and it was just you know being around people
That have a different driven mindset. It's gonna change like you have to change your mindset if you're gonna
Try to keep up and again
I know how smart chocolate is. I know how smart life is. I know how smart Davis like I I had to work
I had to work to to to to keep a seat at the table and I also know not everybody deserves a seat at the table. Yeah
Do you think joko that there? I mean, obviously good attitude to have just generally speaking, but
Would the extreme version of that? I think JP you could I don't the thing is I don't know it
I don't see that it at that this has happened, but it seems like you might run the risk a little bit of
Okay, let's say here's an analogy so let's say we're all running up hill right and at the top of the hill is the goal
And we all have our sacks of marbles. We'll say
Joko's legs are really like a way stronger than ours. We'll say
Allegedly allegedly yeah, yeah, for this analogy
We'll say that's the case and but we all have the same amount of marbles, you know, but I thought when we reach the goal
We're all there equally whatever, you know fulfillment whatever that is
And let's say you're falling behind a little bit like maybe your legs aren't as strong as mine and jok was whatever you're falling behind
And jok was like hey like you go to whatever and you're like refuse because he can grab like half your marbles
And still be rolling faster than us literally he can be doing that just especially for the last 20 meters or whatever
But you're like no, no, these are my marbles. I have to carry them
What it's like hey wait, but if I carry them just for a little bit
I can help us all out and we can all be where we want to be quicker
Seems saying
So Joko, do you think that we run the risk?
Given that analogy. Yes, so here's fiction we we kind of already answered this, but you're bringing a good point into it
So the answer for the original thing as an individual human in J. P's world
He didn't get to a point where he was gonna drop the marbles and fall down the hill
He didn't get there as an individual
So he never reached a point where he had to say
You know, I need help or whatever. That's part one part two is
What you know this is where it starts to
sway the answer a little bit
Now we're supposed to work together as a team right so if J. P is hurting the team
It's the same if J. P gets to a point where he's gonna not make himself
He's gonna speak up if you're hurting a team and you think that's a bad thing well guess what?
Then you need to speak up so yes if J. P would have said
If J. P would have said you know, hey, I can't make it to the gig because I got a deliver pizzas
We would have been like hey, hold on a second dude. What are you talking about?
Yeah, you got a deliver. We don't that's that's we need you at this gig and he would said yeah, but I don't have enough money
And I want to said oh, okay, bro. Well, let's all right. Let's figure this out. Let's talk
So he didn't reach a point where
Look 100% of the time when it was J. P's
Go time he was ready rock and roll like okay, that's cool. Yep. Yep. Here you are. Yep. You're here to drop if you if I would have said hey
J. P. Can you come out of this gig? I'm gonna be at he's like well, I can't because I've got to do
You know, I've got pizzas to deliver. I got a world war goodness construction site
I'll just say wait, why do you have to do that? He said well I actually you know
I'm not quite there at Slam front yet and I need a little bit more money and I said okay cool give me some of those marbles
Or let me give you some of mine, you know, to get you to where you need to be so yes
It can happen and there's you know you see this in a you know what the example at your giving is an actual
An actual thing that can happen in a seal puto, you know if you've got a bunch of guys and you got someone that's can't carry their weight
You and now the platoon is not going to make it right so you say hey
Give me the radio you know to the radio man. Hey. I've carried the radio man's radio before
You know like hey the radio man's got an extra 20 pounds
Give me that radio. Let me carry this thing till we get the next rally point or we get to the next
You know the the next way point that we're going to and see if you feel better and if you do you can take the way back
If not I was on a patrol one time I had this is just a training operation
But I had the radio and I had an M60 from from the radio man and one of the 60 gunners
I mean that's they were hurt and yet I didn't like that's the way it is and you could see
We were gonna lag we weren't gonna make to our where we need to be so alright get me the radio
I'm going to the radio for a little while now. I was looking at the 60 gunner
Dude you want me to carry that thing for a little bit
Yeah, here take my P-shoot or let's switch it out. So yes, you're you are correct
Yeah, but J.P. never got to either one of those thresholds and I will say the
Criticism you could have of J.P. is on a personal level is his threshold to
Too low I guess is the word too low where he thinks it's okay to get to this really low point when
You know maybe his maybe in his mind just maybe your mind J.P. is threshold is too low
But guess what you're not it's not your it's not your life
It's J.P's life and I'm telling you if J.P. got to a point where he was saying and this is what I was trying to make clear earlier
If you not just J.P. if anyone gets to a point where you can no longer keep your head above water man
And I don't care if it's financial. I don't care if it's psychological
I don't care if it's emotional
I don't care for its relationship if you get into a situation where you can't keep your head above water
You have to have the
Humility and the courage to ask for help
That's what you have to do otherwise you drown
Yeah, yeah, and you have the weird gray area though with that with this so you got
That then I'll just kind of easier to explain it where it okay, so when I when you say you say oh
We might fail to get to the whether be the rally point or to get to our objective without meet helping
You know some people whatever but what if they asked for help earlier
They didn't necessarily they weren't about to drown but they were kind of holding things up
You were gonna get there maybe a little late or maybe kind of on time, but if you if they would ask for help earlier
You wouldn't got there early way more advantageous position. See them saying no so there's like a gray area
Whereas like yeah, you're drowning that's like kind of do our die situation
We're in no choice but there's that little gray area where it's like man to optimize like
Just ask for a little bit of help and you might be able to optimize not to say that's always gonna be a situation
But then exactly what you said you kind of got to wrestle with
Someone like you would you wouldn't be like you would take it as a personal failure like I shouldn't
I shouldn't and this is a good thing by the way
I shouldn't have to ask for any help ever unless I'm about to drown otherwise it's not their problem. Yeah, you know and that
This reminds me of you know when we're in Ramadi and I was you know one of our leads snipers
And I wasn't clear on our rules of engagement. We got in the rules of engagement brief
You know our leadership had done a good job. We you know we were fired up to be doing what we were doing
But and it was clear
But what was not clear to me was when you're actually in that situation because there is some gray zones there
There is some like you know like once you're in a situation it kind of changes like
How you can interpret something and I know and our leadership had always made it very clear and I knew just knew that if
If you shoot somebody
That was not in any combat and fighter that was not within the rules of engagement
You're gonna be going to jail
All right like I'm gonna be going to Levinworth to make big rocks to medium rocks to make medium rocks to small rocks
Like that's not gonna be good like you can't just shoot people without them having a weapon or doing a hostile act or something
That's within your rules of engagement and so we were setting up an Overwatch and I was lead sniper and I'm scanning my area
And I knew where the the soldiers were gonna be
I knew where the Marines were gonna be we had some seals on the ground as well with them and like I knew their location
I was aware of it. I had my my map. I did my map study
I knew what I was checking and and I remember seeing this we call them man's military age male that started to
Creep into his activities were within the rules of engagement. It wasn't like this blatant like right away
type of thing but what he was doing was it there was like oh okay that's within those rules of engagement
But because he didn't start doing it right away
There's confusion on my end like I was kind of like and I remember I was I'm my SR25
And it was our sniper rifle that I had it was a 762 caliber sniper rifle magazine held 20 rounds
So in an urban environment it's a great sniper rifle to have because I can shoot it semi auto if I have to
There's a few times in the streets we got and you know get into a gunfight you can take multiple shops shots
You know before you move and it was you know it was a great great gun. I love that gun
And I remember I was watching I was watching this guy and I was like kind of scanning the other area to see if there's
Other activity that was going on and you know I dialed it on this guy. I manipulate my my safety from from safe to fire
But my finger on the trigger and I just was watching the crosshairs on his chest and I was I'm pulling out the slack and it was hot
And I just remember like I just had sweat dripping down my face like I could taste like the salt in my sweat
And there was like this like just dust that was all over us just from just on the forward operating base and
You know patrong to the streets on the rift tops and you know it was kind of like making this little cake
Like mud mixture on you it's just the whole thing was gross and I remember like I actually like licked my lips to like get the sweat off and I
Tasted that dirt and
You know, I'm just and I'm getting ready to take the shot on this guy
And then I stopped and so like I take my finger off the trigger slack comes out
I manipulate the gun to save
I crawl over to Seth and I said hey
This is what's going on right and I tell him what was going on and
It was like the first time Seth
Like I ever kind of saw a disappointment in his face towards me
You could tell you's frustrated and he's like absolutely take that shot and
So I I
Crawl back over to my gun on the rift top and I get on my gun
I get on a glass and that dude is gone
And enemy combat and fighter that was well within the rules of engagement for me to engage and I didn't take the shot I
Let Seth down I
Let those soldiers down I let those Marines down
Because I don't know what that guy went and did I
I don't I because he's gone right and when I've shared this story before I always joke and I said my I just pray that it tank ran him over right
But that was a really
Bad feeling for myself because I didn't do my job
I wasn't able to do my job
Because I failed to ask the right questions. I failed to get clarification
And the reason why I said that reminds me of this story is like what we're talking about is that situation that I was in
Is I failed to share the situation with jockelon life of just say hey here's my situation
I don't need help but I want you to be aware of what I'm working through in case
Something seems off with me if something doesn't make sense right like I failed to share that situation
Because my ego and I failed to ask better questions
About the rules of engagement. I failed to ask better questions of the situation that we are in in combat
Because I assumed I had all the information I assume that I knew enough. I assumed that
My leadership I'd given me all the information and when it came down for me to actually do my job
I wasn't able to do my job because I didn't properly prepare myself. I didn't ask the right questions
And you know, that's just one of those things that
It was a very humbling lesson and it bothered me
Because I mean, you know those soldiers and Marines always had our back and Seth always had our back and I failed every one of them
Like I completely failed them and I remember when we came back from that mission
Seth and I sat down and we talked about it and you know I got clarification from him and the really cool part about it is
Seth took that opportunity for him to understand
That he should have been asking better questions with the guys like he should have been getting a better
Reback and having better communication with us and you know
I'm not saying the rest of the deployment went perfect and you know there was no other small little hiccups here and there
But I can tell you the communication was a lot better. There is a lot more clarifying questions that were asked on both parts and
You have to be able to
Detach and assess the situations at your end and and actually look at it from a different perspective
To to see the different types of questions that you should be asking to gain more awareness for your ability to do your job
Yeah, and that's one of the situations where that was like freaking early as you know very early in the deployment
Yes, and you know I ended up
very soon thereafter
making it
You know I got the whole rules of engagement because the rules of engagement is this big complex thing and it was you know
Enemy combat and this potential facility all these things all these legal terms that
Clearly
Were too much for someone to be sitting on there and gun making a decision like that
Especially someone that's freaking 20 just turned 23 years old
First time in that kind of combat and
And you know so so what I ended up telling everyone of adventure this is all feedback like you know
Seth would tell me like hey here's what happened. I'm like okay, so obviously I did a bad job of getting the word out so people understand what's going on because
You know, so it ended up being hey if you
When you're out there
And you have to pull the trigger make sure that the person you're killing is bad
That's the rules of engagement
You make sure that that person you're gonna kill is bad and here's why because
the day that
one of our snipers or one of our machine gunners shoots and kills
A local neighborhood doctor or a local neighborhood teacher or a local neighborhood and mom
We are gonna get shut down and why is it bad we get shut down because if we get shut down
We can't do what we're supposed to do and that means that these soldiers and Marines that are out for every single day
They won't have us overwatching what they're doing and we know what will happen then and so that becomes the rules of engagement
And and this goes back to something I've been talking about I talked about an EF online
yesterday as a matter of fact
If you understand if you have that deep understanding then you can make all kinds of decisions based on that
You can make all kinds of decisions based on your values on your culture in this particular case
If you truly understand what the rules of engagement and if your boss
Jocco explains it in a way that you can actually understand them
Then you can make just about every single decision you need to make me 99.9 sure there might be some outline situation that
It just you just need clarification on but that should be so rare. It should be so rare that something like that unfolds
And yeah, those are those are the lessons that you learn and that we learn and like you said
Does that mean all of a sudden every other call
Is in terms of rules of engagement was perfect from there on out? No, it wasn't because there there's gray areas
And even the idea of like hey if you shoot the wrong person you're going to prison like that's actually not true and
You know civilians
We'll get killed in combat
unintentionally and if you if mistakes like that are gonna happen and that doesn't mean your chain of command is gonna hang you out to dry
You're gonna get sent to prison. No if you're following the rules of engagement
There can be people that do things that bring them within the rules of engagement and it's something that
Did something that I learned from the first the 506 is good shoot bad result like almost as soon as we got there
They had one of those cases when we got to clear the door they had a case that was one of their I don't even know if it's a sniper
Who is just a rifleman took a shot and it turns out that the person that they the person that was killed
There was a decent chance that they were not an insertion
Of course there's a chance that there wasn't that they weren't an surgeon, but it wasn't a cut and dry case
So what it turns out to be and the way it gets reported is hey, this was a good shot. It was well within the rules of engagement
But we cannot confirm that this individual is bad therefore we're putting it as a good shot with a bad result
These are the kind of things that
Again, they translate into the business world
Because all the time in the business world you've got someone that's on the front lines that doesn't understand the culture
Doesn't understand the rules doesn't understand the strategic mission of the company and they're making a decision
If they don't understand those things they can make the wrong decision all day long
All day long they can make the wrong decision
So we as leaders have to make sure that the people on the front lines that we communicate in a simple clear concise manner
So that they do understand the rules of engagement
They do understand the strategic mission. They do understand that what you do at a tactical level can have a negative impact on a strategic level
Say look at look at the police right now. Yeah, police are in in that exact situation
If there's a police officer they can they can do something on the front lines
And it can have a we we're seeing it right we've seen it now over and over again in the last several months
Something that a front line officer does
Has a negative strategic impact not just on law enforcement button on the entire country and if people don't understand that on the front lines
They that plays into their decision making process in a negative way
No, um
That the thought process of you know you've always ingrained into it since day one of what we started the work up is your individual actions
Kind of affect this whole task unit and
I remember that talk that you had with me
You had the whole talk of the task unit and then you had an individual conversation with me and you told me
Hey JP I need you to put JP and big bold letters on your helmet. I know we talked about this in the other podcast
um
And you told me the reason why is I I want you to I want to always know where you're at
I need you you know you to be my go to guy and
And that was very empowering right it was a very empowering conversation that you had with me
You told me like hey, I need you be I use your step up and be a little more aggressive
Okay, you know, I thought I was pretty aggressive, but hey all right, but you explain like I need you
Like it's just getting stuff done like I need you to you know help set that
I need you to help you know just this task unit and it was the other part that was extremely powerful with that
Conversation is you told me and you know Seth was very clear with this and we worked through this a lot is
You're gonna have a lot on your play as a as a sniper as a point man as a machine gunner when we deploy
You're young right and at the time I had just turned 22 and then before we deploy the month before we deploy
I turned 23 and
It was it was so important to like that you and
Set those leaders
Made sure that I knew
How important my job was how important my individual roles were and that my individual actions could have a negative impact on the task unit
And that if I did something wrong overseas that we could all get shut down and I've
That's always just been in my mind and now have I always had here to that and and made great decisions?
No, you know, I've I've made decisions that you know have been bad. I've been arrested. I've you know
I've gotten in trouble in the military. I've you know, you know, you know, you know, you know
A lot of my marriage to fall apart, but
It's still always been there that's kept you know, just me reminded like hey
Your your individual actions matter and that's one of the things I've always tried to
Remind myself of the opportunity that I've had with with you and life here at echelon front is I need
Every one of my
Actions needs to impact the team for the greater good and you know, I'm and I would always have this little joke like hey everything's a test
Like everything is a test with joccal life like hey, you don't know like hey maybe you know
Just the event something happened with the event like hey, maybe they had a part of that just to see how you would do
Obviously we know that's not the fact, but it was just just to allow us and allow myself to not
You know fall to complacency
You know, I've talked about this in the mustard and we've all taught you know complacency gets people killed
And complacency is something that we have to actually go to war with every single day because it creeps in you that
Alarm clock goes off the complacency is gonna creep in it is gonna creep in in your professional life
Your personal life your relationship with your wife or your husband your significant other you're you know
Your kids complacency is always trying to creep in and
And
Just as a reminder to myself
Over the last four years was my individual actions are going to affect the team and how they affect the team is that's a choice that I that I am that I'm making yeah
There's a there's a whole
Sort of
Yeah, I wrote about leaders of strategy and tactics are about the fact that hey
I would tell the point man. Hey, you're the most important person in the tune because you're the one that knows where are going
I tell the the I would tell Seth hey you're the most important guy here
I tell the radio man you're the most person important person guy here because you're the one that's gonna call for help if we need it
the manifestation of that is
Me looking at you and saying hey put JP on your helmet
Because I want to know where you are
In case I need to have something happen that I can get you
You if you think about that from a psychological perspective
That is the
physical manifestation
Of
Saying hey you're the most important person in this platoon. Yep to tell someone hey and you know I would tell the people be like hey
Stick by me
You know I always tell I would always tell like radio men's or J. Taka be like hey stick by me because I'm gonna need you
You know it was always that it's a it's a it's a I don't want to call it a trick but it's a little bit of a trick
It's a little bit of a trick to say hey man
I need to know where you all are all the time because then what you realize is exactly what you just said and obviously it worked
Because what you realize is my
Individual actions
Have a impact on everyone here what I individually do and this is one of those weird dichotomies because a team is a bunch of people right
What's a team made up of a bunch of individuals and
What happens is when those individuals when good people when good team players what you know
I got to say the this before what's a team a team is a bunch of people that are putting the team above themselves
Mm-hmm and part of that is realizing that my actions as a team member
Impact the people on the left and right me they impact the whole team and if I don't perform the way I'm supposed to
I'm not just letting myself down
I'm letting everyone down and
That's what a good team player a good team player doesn't want to let down the rest of the team
so that that dichotomy between
between hey where a group and where a team and saying hey
This individual you matter to the outcome of what's gonna happen here and
Late pointed this out to me that
When I would debrief platoon's and I might hammer the platoon on this and hammer the platoon on that
But I would always say you know
Hey Fred the way you took that your fight you the fire team leader back there. He's yes sir
Hey, the way you maneuvered on the enemy from the back that made a huge difference and and by the way
Who is that supporting element with him? Oh, that was me all right
Fred or or Jim that was awesome the way you two figured that out and work together
That's the kind of thing we need to see that's cover move. That's what got you guys out of there
And so signaling out these individuals makes people think you know what man I
Matter to this team and that's absolutely huge and it goes against the idea of like all the way
We're all together. We are we are all together 100% but guess what what I do
Matters yes and I
Remember I did that with with Mikey. I remember I told Mikey I'm like hey if I'm carrying a sniper rifle
When we're patrolling I need you by my side because if I'm walking point
And if I wasn't carrying because you know if I was walking point and I wasn't gonna be acting as a sniper
Or if we weren't going to go do a sniper overwatch
I carried the machine gun. I carried the mark 46. I had it ridiculous about an ammo on me and I was good to go
But I knew that if I was walking point with my SR25 or
The 300 win mag guess what I needed Mikey because he was carrying the machine gun and
I knew that I needed him by my side and I remember telling him that you know Mikey's answer is like I got you homes
And he was there he was always by me. You know the only time that he wasn't ever right next to me was when we knew that we were
Patrolling through some areas that were heavily IE deed and it was
Everyone is gonna walk in the same steps that I walked in and he would be far enough away to where if I stepped in on
I on an IED it wasn't gonna kill Mikey and we're just there is a couple times that we had to take those routes in where it was
Everybody was on the same path same step like you stepped here. They're gonna step there type of a deal
To get to the buildings that we're doing overwatch is and I remember there was one time that we
We patrol this route in that we were told like it is heavily IE deed. I mean we were going super slow
I'm a thautical and we get to the target Seth called in the route and the vehicles that came in hit
multiple IEDs along that same route that we were on and it was
Pure grace of God guiding our steps that we didn't hit one of those we didn't step on any of those and it was
That principle of what you just said of like I need to know where you're at and I and I knew how important that was
And I'm not naive. I know I wasn't the only go-to guy that Jocco had
I know I wasn't the most important member of the task unit
I knew that I was an important member of the task unit, but I wasn't the most important member of the task unit
I just knew that and I
You know we're on that deployment, you know
We were in a a situation that we were in a building and it was just a weird situation. I remember
You know when we were getting close to this building
It just had this weird feeling there wasn't a lot of movement. There wasn't a lot of activity like there normally would be in the city at night
When we got close to this area and I remember we we going the courtyard and it was completely empty
There was like almost nothing in there which was not common for the houses there and we get into the building and it was completely empty on the inside as well
And so we're doing the slow methodical scans and
We knew that at the time they were
Starting to booby trap houses and rigging houses to blow
Because they're like, oh cool, they're gonna come use this house. We'll just rig that house to blow
Let them all get set up in there and then they're gonna clock off the house and we're going through this building and it was just that
Just super eerie feeling because it was empty and
Yeah, I think it's just you know that's gonna be a bad thing and we clear the first deck just we go up to the second deck
We clear through it
We go up to the
The rooftop it's completely empty. We check the surrounding buildings to make sure they're not we're not getting ambushed or anything else like that
And we just we're all set up in our different positions. We had guys up on the rooftop
You know the badger that I talked about before he was up there
You know
Mike he was up there another one of our machine gunners are up there
They had the Carl Gustaf rocket up there. We had a bunch of law rockets up there
Myself a couple of the other snipers were in different different different rooms down on that second deck
We had guys down the courtyard and I remember the call to prayer happens sun certain to come up and
Normally there's some activity
There's no activity in our area and we just knew we're like
All right like we know that we're gonna be getting into a big one and
And you know and then that first little pop shot happens, you know, they're shooting up at the building
And then they're kind of getting dialed in and you know they're starting to hit the outside walls and
We're trying to figure out where they're coming from and we kind of start to see okay
Okay, there's some enemy fighters like that's where they're shooting at and we're engaging them and I remember Seth was in the room with myself and another
guy and
You know, he's just kind of asked me what I what I have going on and I'm showing them and like I
I engage these two guys while he's in the room and you know, he's just laughing that just contagious laughter set past
He's like that was awesome and
You know, he crawls out of the room and he goes to the other room to get the report and he's going up to the rooftop and
And then like a round comes into my room like it hits the back wall and it was just so loud
It's large caliber room
Round you're in the room about the sizes podcast room. It's all like
Concrete and marble, right and so it just it's super loud and concussed and
The guys up on the rooftop they see where it comes from and you hear rock it out
They shoot the call good stuff and I just remember I'm in the room
You see the rocket come from above you're just like shoo and just goes into the window of where those enemy fighters were and
It detonates inside there and you just see them like the roof go just like this wave right just boom
And it's all the guys like yeah
I just I found some videos of it and it was just awesome like the guys are just like cheering and everything and you know
We're engaged multiple enemy fighters and now is the first time that I had actually had an
Enemy fighter use a kid as a shield and I just remember
just the way that felt when you're looking through your crosshairs and
There's somebody holding a kid in front of them
Because there's so much of a coward and
They're trying to attack you and they're maneuvering to try to move to a position and they grab some kid that's crying and
Cloning at them and screaming because they're taking from their family and I
just
Matt I'll never shake that feeling because you know that kid is is ruined. You know
How does that kid ever have a normal life when they were being used as a human shield and
There's times that we took shots and
Those kids were fine, you know, and you know the kids were not harmed obviously and there's times that you just knew that you couldn't take that shot because any
Air anything, you know, you can't you know, you couldn't do that you can't obviously you would never do that and you know
We were we're in it for a while that day and
Guys are kind of given their like hey update on their ammo and we're starting to run low
And I remember we tried to get some some support to our position and they were able to because they had they had troops in contact
There's a bunch of coordinated attacks that were kind of going on in the different in that region and
And
You know, we make the call hey we're gonna have the clap security and we're gonna head back to one of these one of these cops kind of get
Re-supplied readjust the situation and
So we make that call and as it happens around comes through the window that I'm in and it hits the metal grading in front of me
And I get
Catch a little fragment in my face and the round hits the wall and I I'm on my background away like I'm on my back laying down trying to get out of that that window
So and I just remember like my face felt really warm
And I was like touching my face to see if I did shot and there's like a little bit of blood on my fingers and I
Was able to oh my okay, that's
Nothing I probably cut myself shaving worse than that. It was just enough
And so I'm down and there's machine gun fire that's coming down in that window that I'm in
Another one of the guys who's like out in the hallway and he's like crawling in the
You know and
You just like trying to get out of there and I remember like I'm up against the window as close as I can to try to eliminate like the angle that
They could be shooting in from another rooftop or a window out there and
Like I get my Paris scope out and I'm like trying to like look out the window and I kind of see what's going on
And I look at my rifle and at a hard malfunction on my on the S.R. 25
Like I'm just I'm gonna have to take this apart to actually fix this. I'm like this is not a good situation to be in
And I'm in my own little world like I'm trying to figure out there's steady shots coming into the room that I'm in and
It's a definitely an enemy sniper and then you'll have a little bit of machine gun fire that's coming in
It's a spraying the building some of the rounds actually coming into the room and
And I'm like trying to figure out like I need to get out of the room like I'm trying to time it
I'm like well if I maybe if I get on my stomach
I can get it like a sprinter's position. I can like jump and like slide out like I need to be able to get out like
Whoever like they've got they've got me pinned down like they've got their bead well done
Take mark on your side for now like like I'm trying to figure out how I'm gonna get out of this situation and then
I hear
A very familiar sound that usually brings a lot of comfort
To me and it was Mikey and one of the other machine gunners just
Bupupupupupupupupupupupup like they're seeing it off each other and then you hear all the other guy shooting
So there's a gunfight going on however that gunfight's not in front of the courtyard they were
Down the alleyway they had left me like I
Insultly realized that I'd been left behind on that target and I knew that I had to get out of the room
And I need to figure out how I was gonna get a hold of them to get situated
What I didn't recognize and realize that I was hearing nothing over my radio
Because at the time I had my radio for whatever reason was like on my back and when I would
Got in the onto my back and was sliding up against the window I
Shut it off reprogrammed it or whatever change the channel had done something right and so
I end up making my way out of the room
I make my way downstairs. I have my pistol all have my sig 2 2 6
Because my rifle is is a hard mouth function this building is still being shot at like the enemy fighters
No were at the guys had left
I make my way down the courtyard and I'm trying to figure out okay, hey, how do I get a hold of the guys?
I have to get to my radio but in order for me to get to my radio that means
I actually have to take my my gear off and I'm in the courtyard by myself
I get myself into the corner I can hear
Like people moving around on the other buildings and the other courtyards you can hear them talking
You can hear them shooting out the building these guys are down the alleyway shooting
so
I get my radio out
I I keep the radio
I'm like hey guys this is the JP
You left me behind on target. I might have added in a few other keywords in there, right?
And so and I hear and now I hear the gunfire over the radio and it's I know what's happening
It's Seth keyed up to respond to me as he's
Like looking around for me and it's a instant Roger that we're headed back your way
And so the badger is making the calls like get them back to me
They get close to me and I'm talking with him on the radio and I said hey
I'm coming out on the south side of the alleyway laid down cover fire on the north side
So Mikey the other machine gunner they you know another big dude like Mikey carried the the mark 48
They just you know I'm talking about just an amazing operator
They they get side by side and they're just like
Just like seeing off of each other and I remember like I poke out my head like I look I look at them
And I'm just holding ass to get
Linked back up with them and as I'm running up like I have my pistol on my hand because and I'm like holding onto my rifle
And they're just like the like the look and I remember looking at Mikey and
I was just like trying to probably like the whole thing. I'm still trying to process, right?
It's you know that's why the people say the fog of war is it's a real thing
And I remember looking at Mikey and I'm wondering like
Who are you walking next to like I was the point man bro?
And then I look at the guy that screwed up the head count and I'm like
How do like there wasn't that many of us like how do you screw this up, right?
And then I like looking at Seth and I'm just like the same thing like
Who are you like who is leading you guys out of this and just this whole thing?
I just remember like I was I was like pissed off obviously we we take a courtyard. I fixed my rifle
We make our way back. We debrief submission. We kind of figure out what happened and I remember
The guy that screwed up the head count came up and he like he gives me this hug and I love this guy
I we've always been very close and he gives me how he's like brah
I'm so sorry. I'm like man. That wasn't your fault like you know
But he was just like super apologetic of it and and Mikey
Mikey came up and we were talking he's like bro
He's like if I would have been with you that wouldn't have happened man like
This is this is my fault man. I'm sorry and you know Seth takes ownership of it as well
You know and I'm talking through it. I'm like guys. This is my fault. You know, it's so like raw. I kind of figured out
But it was just I remember
Just the look on Mikey's face
Of he felt like he had failed me because he wasn't by me and I would said hey man
I need you by my side because if I'm a sniper I need a machine gunner
For multiple reasons and and I just remember like and after that like you know we got ours
Our gear squared away like why was a radio on my back? I shouldn't have had my radio back there
I should have been you know there's all these things that were obviously it was it was my fault at the end of the day
It was 100% my fault but I just as you were sharing that story about like the psychological
Side to what you did with the helmet. It was it was the same thing that I did with Mikey when I was like hey
I need you by my side and there's gonna be times that team members screw up
They forget what they need to be doing that they fall you know there's other priorities that come or come about
Do we had a loss guys were running out of ammo?
We shot every rocket that we brought with us guys were throwing grenades
You know like from the rooftop all the way over to the other courtyard where there's people at and I mean so
I mean we were there's a lot of stuff going on and I just
Remember just how much that affected Mikey and we talked through it and you know just making sure like hey
We're good we're on the same page and you know there's there's a lot of unique situations here in that deployment
you know and
It's just important that people know the roles and how they affect the team you get it meant when when jocos like hey
Right this JPN the back of your helmet
And you got it you're looking around you're like hey he didn't ask no one else right there named on the back of the helmet
I'm kind of the man right now. I mean I still have that
You know what's cool
When you're talking about hey you go back to debriefet thing and Seth says it's fault and the head count guys says it's fault Mikey says it's fault
You say it to your fault and some people might look at that and go well, you know
Well, I guess this is that extreme ownership everyone is just taking ownership and what really happens
This is what what I like to call overlapping fields of ownership. Yes, and what it means is
You have multiple people looking at the same problem and we're all gonna figure out how to solve it because guess what
You take a situation like that if you were to get out a surgeon's knife and start to carve away
Who was responsible? Well, there's a bunch of people that had to make mistakes
Yes for that to occur and if every you know if Mikey would have said wait where's JP?
That's it doesn't happen if you would have said wait why in our hearing and say if you had your radio in the right spot
You would have heard calls that they're leaving if the head count guy would have freaking count
And correctly that problem would have been solved if Seth would have looked at the freaking head count guy. Are you sure we're good like you don't like all these things
When everyone takes ownership of the problem look
Not everyone's gonna you know you get freak your bell wrong by a by an RPG hitting a building you might not be counting freaking great
Even if it only count the six yeah, right and then and like I knew our SOPs for when we clap security
You know and I was in my own little world solving my problems of being pinned down by an enemy sniper
Not trying to put my head up trying to figure out how I'm gonna get out of the room
But if I legitimately would have just dis like
Disconnected for a split second in detach and said oh
We just made the call to collapse security
It's been about 30 seconds guess what the guys are doing they're collapsing security
I could have just yelled like hey I'm in this room. I need cover fire like I could have I could have done or said something
To to eliminate all that confusion right and so what you end up with is instead of having a single point of failure
You have multiple you have overlapping fields and redundancy to to get problem solves and that and that's what you want that's what you want on a team
And the funny thing is
When you go to the opposite of that if you come back and you start point your finger at the head count
Go you know why did you get a good head count? You know when he's gonna do
He's gonna say because I didn't have any cover fire when I stepped out of the building
Yeah, and then you know and he points is at the aid dump and says why won't you give me cover fire?
He goes why wasn't giving you cover fire because we didn't have enough time to reload our weapons because you made the calls too fast
And then sets says you know
Seth why did you make the call you told us to do to that we were gonna break out
But you gave us only 15 seconds how much most do we reload and
Then Seth says why aren't you training when we're back here so that you can do a faster reload and what do we have instead of
Extreme over ship ownership overlapping we've got no one no one's responsible for what happened and therefore
We don't fix the freaking problem and
Well you're saying it's like people say oh, is this is stream ownership?
When you say it's my fault that's not taking ownership
Extreme ownership is owning the problems and the solution it's my fault at a moving my radio to hear yes
And it's my fault which means hey
I'm gonna start getting the head counts just inside the door instead of outside the door and it's hey when I break
When when I call breakouts
We're gonna get I'm gonna give everyone a solid minute and when I say break out that means change
Ammo get ready to rock and roll like all those little things that's what we are all gonna do to win
You think that this was
It's weird and and you can see how each one of those people in the in this particular situation
You could see how if you let your ego get in the way
You don't take ownership you instead blame other people
If we can horrible
So those are the kind of lessons that
You know we learn on the battlefield and they're so obvious when you're on the battlefield the consequences are so high
I mean you think about the consequences of you being left behind
You know it's uh it's one of those miracles that you were able to link back up and there's
That's one of the things that you always have to do you know we call those lessons that
They were cheap lesson right the price that could have been paid to learn that lesson could have been dead JP
But got away with it
Got away with it by the grace of God and you still come back the the team looks at itself and says what can we do better
And it's you know, it's tape being able to take these lessons and that I think that's why in the in the business world
People relate to them because they are
High stakes situations and sometimes in the business world
The consequences they're not as high and
The feedback isn't as immediate
In the business world you know if you make a mistake in the business world maybe it's you know
It takes three months before your profits start to fall and you you can kind of identify what the problem was and it was a leadership mistake here and there
And now we can start to adjust those things in combat. It's like no, I made a mistake right now and I'm paying for it right now and so it makes the
lessons
It makes the lessons very obvious. It's just a it's these these battlefield metaphors is why I think
People relate to what we talk about not because
Because not because they they they they want to be you know soldiers not because they want to be in war
But because they want to learn the lessons and it's a powerful way to learn them when you see them through the examples of
combat
So at this point
in 2017
year
Kind of getting on step
Yes, yeah, I was I was on step
with
the workload you know it started like I said after May it really started pick up
And there's always a delay in what we do like hey there's a
Jamey bag hey you got a bunch of kids coming around like cool she's like it's not until like November to Sammer January next time like okay cool
Like I'm super happy or should they care I won that's in three weeks. I'm a guest book it right like it was just
It was unique as unique situation that we're in
You know we had the we had mustard zero zero three down an awesome Texas and that was
It was awesome like that was a great
mustard learned a lot and you know I
Learned about my limitations and I remember I was just going going going going going going going because I had all the other stuff
I was still doing and then and it wasn't until June that I would stop doing all the other things
So I was doing everything with echelon front. I was doing all the shooting. I was doing the construction
I was delivering the pizza as doing the never settle a pair
I was doing all this I had buddies that were
Back in Mississippi that refighting so I would wake up and I would train with them in the morning
My buddy Jesse James Wallace
Teddy Holder Zack under all these guys I had fights that were coming up out like yeah, let's train
Let's all training the morning
My buddy Dylan that was helping me out with stuff like it was trying to get him on the path for because he wanted
You know to be able to go in the military and law enforcement and so I
would
Was doing a lot a lot a lot a lot which is good
because I would see
Your workload I would see lace workload and I knew
What I needed to be doing and I've never been a friend of hard work like hard works a great thing
I mean look at like you know my dad you know my my family like they're all about working hard
And that's it's all I ever also knew in the military as well. I'm not saying I'm the hardest work
I'm not saying that's the smartest work. I just I enjoy hard work. I have I love it
And so I just was working hard working hard working hard and
The valuable lesson that I learned at mr. 003 was I need to be comfortable with my limitations and
Be who I am I was trying to be joccal in life
Because that's all I thought that needed to do I thought if I was like joccal in life
That's what would that's where I would have choose success. That's how I'd fit in on the team and set of
focusing on
being
The best version of who I am being who God created like God created me a certain way
I have a certain personality
You know, I am I am made the way I am made for a reason
Just like you're made the way you are for a reason you've been made able to
Figure out exactly what makes you the most effective and you capitalize on that just like life has just like Dave has just like all the other members of the
Eshelon front team are have or they're learning to do right and so at that point I
I was
Running myself into the ground and I remember one time I gave the analogy to somebody
I said and this is so foolish on myself at the time is this just shows like image already in the in the business sense
Of I give the analogy and I thought this was like a like a sense of honor right after I said
I'm burning the candle at both ends and there's a flame torch over the middle like I'm just literally just burning at both ends
And I'm torch in the middle of the candle. I'm just doing everything and
It was super humbling because we're at the monster
I spoke on that first day
We you know PT we do the monster and we're doing our rehearsals that night and I just I remember like Jan and Jamie
Rod J. P. are you okay? I'm like yeah, I'm good and life was like you good. I'm like I'm just
I'm exhausted and he said okay, so we do our stuff and you guys were science certificates and books and so I was staying up there and
I like Jamie's like go go get some rest. I'm not okay. So I go to my room block out the room
set my alarm
Call wake up call
Set the alarm on my watch
Set the alarms on my phone and you know from learn from your life. It's like you should always also travel with a battery powered alarm clock in case the power goes out
Everything's dead like you can least wake up to that have that across the room. I mean, I think I had like five or seven like a alarm set
And I wake up
To the phone and I'm
We're trying to figure out what's going on because the room is pitch black and I hear life is like hey
It's life are you okay? And I first I thought I was like a dream and then I kind of like I sat up in the bed
I realized I was like yeah, what's up? He's like or just want to make sure you're okay?
Like yeah, I'm good and I looked at the clock and
And as I look at the clock and processed the time
He says hey, do you think you can make it downstairs?
In 10 minutes though we can do some recording before the mustard starts
I was like yes, sir, and I hung up the phone and it was like 740
And PT had taken place at 445 with the whole
The whole group and PT before that that we normally do had taken part at like 345 or 4 whatever time it was
Because we PT before the group PT is in the group PT and I missed out on all that and I was
So to be right in section and and everything and
I mean late for wasn't like he wasn't like
Screaming at me over the phone or anything else like that and he just knew make sure I was okay
It's like hey, can you make it down here? I'm like yeah, and I just remember
I had all my stuff lined up. I always have my stuff ready for the next day
I'm not gonna you know because I know what could happen and so I remember I'm the jumper the shower
And I am so mad at myself
Like I am so upset with myself and disappointed and I said well you just screwed up the best thing you ever had
Because I'm like this joc was gonna fire me
I didn't know like you know like because I also understand there is no
Slack with what we do it's been made very clear like hey, we don't miss events
We don't drink on the road with clients. We don't do like there's a list of things that we just don't do
And me missing a morning PT at the mustard is something that we don't do
And so I go down there and
You know I'm doing the recording with Joel and he was like hey man, miss you this morning. I'm like
A little dig from Joel. Yeah, but he was you know, it's like that's not echo and that goes like hey man
You good I'm like
Oh
I'm like you good driving I'm dreading seeing you in life and like you come around and you just have this big
smile on your face
Laughing like laughing right now
You're like you good like yes, they're I was like I'm I don't what happened
I was like I'm he's like a good just make sure good. He's like and then you told me like and then life comes up and he has his big smile
He's like you good to go like yes, sir
Then you guys are laughing you're like we were
Jocco was joking about how we should just let you sleep until you woke up and just to see like what you would do
Remember just the thought of that was like
I don't know what I if I would have just kept sleeping and then woken up at like
Whenever I don't know three o'clock in the afternoon for the closing of the buster
I probably would have just gone straight to the airport right here's my two week notice
It's been real thanks guys. No, I don't I don't know what I would have done
I'm really glad you guys didn't do that because I would have been devastating and I just remember I had to like
Recognize like you know what you need to find a little more balance and you know it's
It's embarrassing that that's that's a humbling experience when you need to understand that you're at your
Capacity because most people don't want to admit that and you know let
Seth
Was so dialed in with us the he knew our kit our capacities as individuals and that to me is just a sign of a great leader
And you and life have always been able to do that with the guys that you guys work with and
You guys
understood what happened, you know, you know, and we we had a conversation and as a
Sitting here joking and we're laughing and you guys are laughing
There was also this like hey
Like we need to know like a you good is everything okay like why did this happen type of the thing like because this can't happen on the road
You know you can't be missing in a vet
You know and so kind of push through that
And then I had like five weeks off like had nothing booked and so I met I like at this time
We're traveling a lot a lot of rental cars out of bunch of credits and so I we rented an SUV
And we just traveled and we we we hit 13 states and we made herself our way out to California
Just spend some time with my grandmother and then we worked our way down to Southern California
I had an event Jeff McGreevy put on. It was a big individual ticket sale event for me to do a full day of training
I was like a really cool thing that
He's like hey
You know we want the proceeds to be able to go towards this this
Foundation that we have for the police officers in this region and you know we we discounted our price at echelon front to you know for us
Be able to do that so they could
Have as much they could go to this foundation as possible and it was cool because my
Amanda the kids were able to come and they're able to see it and watch it and I
I'll post it
Probably the next week or two but I took a picture
When they're there all three the kids were taking notes and you know
I mean my daughters were born in 2012 this is
2017 so the girls are five right they're about five and a half years old and they're writing down
Then economy of leadership when I was doing that slide and they're like writing down all the different things on it
And it was it was really cool to see that and that event that Jeff put on it was awesome was very fulfilling
And I was that's when I was starting to kind of just
Things were clicking a little bit more and I was gaining more confidence in myself because I always
Unfortunately even though I tend to be a very confident person and most aspects of my life
When it came to speaking I was super insecure because I grew up with a speech and pediment
I was in speech therapy all throughout school. I stutter and mix up my words
I'm sure some people will hear it on the podcast like oh yeah, he said that instead of this like
Laced give me real time feedback. We've been out at a vet. We'll have a break. He's like hey
That word doesn't exist. He keeps saying it's not like oh
Check okay, like I'll make sure that I don't say that
There's all the things that you know he's been great on coaching me on like hey like try to make sure you're not saying this and doing this this way
And but I always had that insecurity and you know just working through it and and
Seeing the impact that we were delivering at Ashland front
It was a very clear realization to myself that this isn't about me and it brought me back to when I was on the stage with life
And he corrected my answer for the best you know anti snipers
Here's the tank right and then again that was that realization like oh this isn't about what I did as a sniper's not about what we did and
I was really starting to fully understand
How much of an impact the echelon front was having was when I saw
Like people driving
Six hours just to meet you in life like they they couldn't afford the monster
But they would drive just to come see you guys just to get their picture and say you guys restore their marriage and people that have you guys as signatures
Tattooed on their forums they have good tattooed on their forums and discipline equals freedom and just I was really seeing like wow
This is so much bigger than I thought it could be and I started to allow some doubt to creep in and saying
I don't know if you deserve to be a part of this anymore because I was seeing how big it was and you know
Dave is just crushing it and you guys are doing great things and just just it's incredible
And that was it was you know another god thing is like that is about the time
You know Seth and I were really starting to communicate a lot like you send me pictures of him
I'll go and do and stuff or you know some videos and you know and you know
Remember when him him tell me
He's having a message he said hey I'm really proud of you
Is that Jaco told me how well you're doing
He's like I'm really proud of everything that Jaco life and you're doing you're doing awesome
And I you know I still have those messages saved and I just it was
It was again it was something that I needed right it was I think that we all need and
We all need you know people in your life that are going to pour into you. They're going to feed you know
feed into and and help you know with that confidence and that's what you guys have here at this gym
That's what you guys have in your jitzie that's what we had in the seal teams
That's what we have it actually on front and it was just
Seth being Seth Seth being that that servant leader that serving others like I'm not in the military
I haven't been in at this point. I haven't been in it for
You know four you four and a half years like he's doing his thing
He's and he's still taking the time to reach out and and say hey man
I just want to let you know that I'm proud of you and
for me
For for wow I I really when I got out I try to push
Myself away from all the guys
Because I had a guilt forgetting out of the military
I'm not being in the sealed teams
The the guilt of me not being on that rooftop when Mikey jumped on the grenade is something I think about every
Dingle day because again Mikey was one of my new guys that was overwatch there was supposed to be on
And I didn't I wasn't there and
There's
Other buddies that have been killed and
Me not being in situations and I felt like I should have been and
And so for a long time I just pushed everybody away
I wouldn't respond to people
And I would make things up in my mind and regards to like well we're not even that close anyways or he
You know, he doesn't even like me or you know
Like he's pissed off of me about something I was legitimately making stuff up in my mind so that I would feel better for pushing people away
And I tried to do that with Seth for a long time because I just had this
immense amount of guilt
And you know I doubted myself
When I doubted him I doubted Jocca when I doubted everybody that I had worked for
When when when Mikey was killed and I held on to that for a long time and
Seth continued
To this knock on the door, you know, he just continued to reach out and continue to rebuild those relationships
And things were really good and
Seth and I were talking and communicating and
And you know he did a cross country trip on his on his motorcycle and he came through and we're able to link up and
It was just it was great
And then September 2017
Life babbling is calling me
Looked down and it's a picture of life and I and our and our rash guards when we were training in it in in New Jersey right you were teaching life and I
Did you see it? New York at New York yeah for that FTX and
It's just a great picture always makes him smile and so life's calling me I answer the phone. I'm all excited I'm like hey what's up off?
He says hey J.P. and it was that hey J.P. call
that I got in
Handful of other times
I just I knew something had happened
And he informed me that Seth had passed away
And I couldn't process it didn't make sense to me because that morning I was messaging with Seth
And the last thing I had said to Seth was hit me up when you're done
And so I was waiting to have a response from Seth
And life tells me what happened
And I'm gonna kid their coming up and they're trying to talk to me
I'm trying to like push them away and say hey hold on I'm on the phone for work just give me a second and
I get off the phone with life and I remember just like looking at the kids
And I call a man that said hey can your can your parents come pick up the kids because she was working at her business at the time
She had a business that she'd opened up and she said hey Seth says just passed away
And she was trying to process it as well and it just didn't make sense to her
And she said y'all how my parents come over and her parents come over and I just remember I was like
Like I got the kids ready
I
Was like I was a coward I sat in the kitchen as a graphic kids
I didn't even meet them at the door
Because I didn't know what to do I I couldn't process that Seth had actually passed away. I was talking to him that morning
Seth was my big brother. He was you know, we went there asking tea together we checked in the steel teams together and he always had my back
I just couldn't fathom my brother passing away
Is the way I looked at Seth's away that my little brother looks at me. You know I've always had my brother
Course back and I always will and course always had mine that's the way Seth was to me and I just I couldn't
I couldn't process it and I literally I just sat in the kitchen
As they came into the house and I grabbed the kids and my father and la Jeff said I'm very sorry for you loss
And they grabbed the kids and they laughed and my mother allowed look at me and she was you know
Sad and she didn't really know it to say either it so you laughed them
I tried to call jacco and
Because I just knew what
Seth meant to him that was his best friend and I just I was so worried about jacco
and
I couldn't get a hold of them understandably so
And I called Jamie and I said hey
Seth's I'm just passed away. I just want to give you the heads up
You're gonna need to clear everything from jacco's calendar for a while
I don't know what's going on. I don't know the process. I don't I don't know anything but
I just want to give you heads up and choose like this is horrible
She's like I'm so sorry
And I said I just I want to give you the heads up because I don't know when you'll hear it from jacco
But there's something that you need to know
and then
I just I started the phone tree of calling guys and everybody in our poll tuned
Just trying to find numbers and get a hold of guys and
Trying to process it through a different guy's just trying to understand it and you know it was
Yeah, it was it was you know a big blow obviously to everybody that knew Seth
Um, you know, it was weird because all of us had this open
Period on our calendars at that time
Maybe I'm super suspicious but every time I see a I'll look at all of our calendars and I'm always like making sure that there's never like a gap that's open for all of our calendars
Because I know that doesn't make sense to people when you say God has a plan
And our days are numbered
But I believe in that and
Seth
Seth last a day was was already planned and God knew when that was gonna happen and I know it's hard to understand and process that because
The world was a better place with Seth and he impacted so many lives and he made such an amazing difference and it does it just doesn't seem sense for him to be gone
But God knew what was gonna happen and the fact that we all had that block open to be able to
Do our events and and and make everything
That we needed to do with the with the funeral and the different services was was was unique
You know came came back to San Diego and you know
Last time I was in my uniform was was for that and I was still within that window being able to wear my uniform and you know it was
It was a powerful
Even that seeing all the guys and
You know I I was standing watch over Seth at the funeral home and
Guys had different you know different watchers stand over and the command was
That all these guys that were from Seal team through that were Rogered up to to stand watch over him and myself and a bunch of the other guys
We're like no we're gonna stand watch over Seth that's like that's is what we need to be doing
And the command was awesome these new guys are super fired up and square it away
And very professional and they understand who Seth was and the impact that he had and and we're watching over the guys and I'm
Where I was at the funeral home and
Standing there and my uniform and the family members are coming in and and
You're standing there at attention and you know people were saying hey, thank you
Appreciate you being here and you know they're coming in and you just see the pain and you know the sorrow on on their faces and you see the see it
And their bodies are walking up and you know family members that are getting close and they pause
Because they don't want to actually walk inside that building and
I remember seeing
Life
There and I remember seeing jocca walking up with this family
And they they came to the outside and they were talking and
Seeing each other and there's like the bro hugs and like the half hugs with family members and full hugs and and I'm just standing there and
I remember
As they were getting ready to walk in they they did what everybody else did is they there's that pause
Because they knew once they walked in and it made it real
And just like jocca was always done
He had up chest out
Takes a breath walks inside was his family
Life does the same thing they go inside
And I'm I'm just standing outside and
And
Everyone has their time in there. They pay their respects and then everyone leaves and it was
Life I think it was life that pulled me in and it was just the three of us
And
We were we were paying our final respects to Seth
This casco is open he's in his uniform
And
Life play some patches in there
I took the bracelet that was off my wrist that had Mark's name and Mikey's name and Ryan jobes name on there
And a handful of other guys that were on there and it took it off and I my place inside the casket
I
Remember just like just like touching the sess arm and just it's being real and
You're just set it a quick little little prayer and
Step back and
Jocco went forward and he presented Seth was his black belt and
There was some surf wax that was placed in there as well and it was completely silent and
Jocco comes back
We're kind of standing there and we just all kind of have our heads down, but we're kind of looking at each other and we're kind of looking at Seth and
Jocco breaks a silence and he he just says a very simple but powerful statement he says
We will not fail
We will not fail Seth
We will not fail the guys
And that was it
It was a very
powerful statement that I
Have thought about every single day since we laid Seth the rest
Seth
Never failed us
And that's your work Jocco you went on to say as well as that Seth he said Seth never failed us
We will not fail them and
Then it was back to business as normal and it just reminded me of
The teams
It's obviously
A horrible situation to lose somebody
But we still have a mission that we have to achieve we still have to you push forward
And that's exactly what our brothers would want us to do
We cannot fail them
Yeah, just to just to make sure everyone kind of knows that
When JPC says you know, but then we'd moved on
Just just make sure that everybody knows that
You just don't get to move on. I mean you you have to but it doesn't feel like okay we can move on now and and I know I
Unfortunately had to have had to speak about what you do when you lose someone and what it feels like and
There's a reason why I've been able to talk about that and unfortunate reason is because I've lost a lot of friends and
Seeing people lose friends and seeing the
the
The situation unfold not just from my own personal experience, but
From watching other people go through it and you don't
You you move on you have to but
Don't think that you are gonna be everything normal in a week on a month or any year and
That's just not the way leaders don't get to do that and you don't I don't want to do that
I don't think anything ever goes back to normal. No because the normal is when they are with us
And that's not a reality more and that is something that we all had to learn to
To deal with and work through and
You know when you're saying like had just want to be clear when JPC said to move on
If you don't it's not like you move on like that it never happened and you forget
It
Like when we came back from our body, you know you come back from that deployment from our body
And when you come back from like we've talked to like every company who talked to we always ask I hate what you come back from that
I don't want to like that with there's a lot of anger. There's a lot of frustration. There's darkness
There's guilt. There's all those things, but if that's all you focus on
Where does it get you?
It gets you nowhere it gets you absolutely nowhere in life and
The the conversation that you had with life and I about us not failing them
Is something that I hope
Everybody can just truly understand and and and and realize that hey
You can live your life in a way to honor them and
Maybe it's not to honor our brothers. Maybe it's not to honor anybody in the military
But there's somebody in your life
Somebody a sacrifice something so that you can at least be in the situation that you're in and you can live your life to honor them
You can live your you can live your life
One or two ways you can allow to fall apart or you can you can build it up and you can you can move forward
With your mission to achieve your mission and that's what a lot of veterans struggle with is understanding
How can you even have a mission?
You've experienced all this loss you've experienced all this devastation how do you actually
Find a new mission? How do you find a new way? How do you stay on the path? How do you even get back on the path?
And the loss of Seth was obviously devastating to everybody that knew him
You know I choose to remember his laugh. I choose to remember that smile
How he would come up and he would just like he would always like and it's like slap me on the back and kind of grab my trap and just like
Just a little shake and you're just like you such a strong powerful guy when you do that you're like
Okay, you know, but
You know and he was
He always he always was taking care of people and I think if we can try to live our lives
Somewhere that and just try to be like
Seth and Mikey and Mark and Ryan and you know all the other guys that we've lost and I just I
Really believe that if people can understand
The situations at the end and how good that they have it and to be thankful for the opportunities that they have
They'll achieve what they want in our life and for me that's
I think a big learning point that I had over these last four years was just maintaining
The gratitude mindset that I had
Of just being thankful for the opportunities and you know that's that's why we moved to Texas
It was because I knew that if I was essentially located it would be the best thing for echelon front for travel and just of
Being able to interact with as many clients as possible and it was either gonna be essentially located in Texas or San Diego
Here with you, right so
Life was in Texas you were in San Diego. I knew Dallas Fort Worth was an amazing airport
It was gonna be good for travel
And so that's why we moved we moved from Mississippi to be to be essentially located for what we perceived was the best
Resh lawn front because it was so grateful for this opportunity and
I wanted to make the absolute best of
What we had and then as as a company's grown
You know went from just being a
Instructor and a speaker to we had the opportunity after mr
004 in San Diego when we're like kind of defining okay roles and responsibilities as a company's growing
You know and you guys you know
May me the director of our experiential leadership training program all the hands-on scenario based leadership training that we do and
You know, I this was another big opportunity that I had you know and I understood the potential and I understand how important it was with the company and
You know just to be able to
Grow a department within national on front was it's it's been amazing it's been a great learning experience for myself and
You know making sure that as we're growing the company, you know
You'll brought on Cody
He's been helping to run he was like the operations manager for all the field training exercises that we brought and he's a you know
Former Marine he's super square it away
Came out to one of the first big FTX is that we're doing we had a group of super square away guys there and
You know he really stepped up and and took ownership of of the team or the scenarios of the training understood it and
You know he was also in a position where we could provide him like hey here's the here's opportunity
We have we'd love to have you come on full board with the team
You know and so throughout 2000 you know 18 you'll grow in the out the FTX program
Speaking travel in a bunch 2019
Same thing like crazy busy bunch of FTXs
Seeing the growth of the team, you know Dave growing up
Growing out the leadership development alignment programs and just the partnerships with all the different companies that we had it was
you know
It's just been crazy to see that see their transition and you know obviously us talk about Seth is let's that's the heavy deep topic
But it's
Part of these last four years and you know the last four years has been an
An amazing opportunity that I am forever thankful and grateful to you and life for giving me and
You and life always say it and I believe it and it's only getting started and
The impact that
The book
Extreme ownership and the economy of leadership that you and life wrote to see the impact to see it
Changing people's lives. I mean there's been people that have lost a hundred plus pounds
There's been people that have regained their marriages. There's been companies that came and reached out to you and life and said hey
This is our last ditch effort if we don't fix something we're going in out of business and to see them be able to apply the principles
It laws a combat the mindsets of victory to understand the different dichotomies that we all experience as individuals and as leaders
To see them apply those things and see them to turn around their personal and professional lives
It's just been an incredible and
Knowing
Where we will be going with you know EFR line to see that grow and develop into what it is right now. I mean the the value and
echelon front
Material is just
It's it's hard to private to figure that out. I mean just because
You're talking about on one of the sessions the other day. It's like hey, we didn't know what at the beginning and then you know the market kind of you know
Dick takes that for us and we understand the demand
And but to see the value that people are getting from EFR line is is absolutely incredible
And to see the old apps that that Dave is created and overwatch and everything that Mike's really has been doing over there
And to see the impact of placing veterans and how it ties back to echelon front and you know
EFR battlefield that you know Steve and Jason are Mike just created and just man
I was I was a little sad that I wasn't there. I mean I understood that I didn't need to be there
I could tell you were getting all jealous and felt like you were missing out you like hey
What was it and I and that actually Dave was the same way and
Both you guys were like oh, how was it you know like and you are hoping that I was gonna say
Oh, it's fine
No, and I was like it was awesome. No, I was
I don't throw that you guys know I don't throw that around easily. Yeah
When I because because the EF battlefield is awesome. It's awesome. It's amazing and yeah
I could tell both you guys like oh, how was it?
And I'm not saying you are hoping it was bad, but it hurt when I said it was freaking awesome
Dave asked me the question immediately
He goes he goes oh, he goes oh, how is the EF battlefield and I go it was freaking awesome and he goes
He has battlefield like he re-ass me the question to make sure that
That he was actually hearing it. He was you know, I mean he's super stoked and he's gonna be I mean everyone's gonna be stoked
What do you go do it? It was yeah, it was like the you know the field training exercises when you and life came out and saw
What what and progressed into and what we're doing out up and Michigan with our large client up there like for you and life
Both to be like
This is awesome. And just to see the impact and now like I mean
Just to it's crazy to see what's happened over the last four years
I mean we haven't even talked about just you know what we've been able to do with origin and Jochofuel
I mean
I mean it's ridiculous. I have a sour apple sniper
Discipline go drink sitting in front of me with my signature on the sock
I mean the go time series that they did that little mini documentary
I mean that has 2.2 million views on YouTube organically
Like that's all organic and just it's it's crazy
I was talking my buddy Michael and a few other people my you know to my best friends in Texas
Steven little and Dane you know and Dane's helped out with FTXs and he's how brought came out to the musters and you know
Just my really close friends understanding like what's been happening and what's going on and it's just incredible
I mean to see the situation where four years ago
We had no money and
And now like as we're looking to buy a house
We're in a situation that it's pure comfort. It's it's a completely different scenario
I mean the coronavirus hit not once have I ever been in a stressed situation over finances
When this all hit I gave you an update of my status and you're like, okay, I feel good to go and I let life know and it was
You know how I am with my finances. I'm very private. I don't like people knowing what I make
I don't I just I'm not like that. I've never been like that
I don't like the people on social media that are like bragging about like I made this much money
Well, I smell who cares like okay cool great
I'm not like that but I knew that I had to give you guys that situation update of like hey, you know what
Everything and life since day one he's been
amazing
working with me on hey
Investments savings, you know, just making sure that I knew it was being taken care of being studios with my money and and
And I've been very studios with her with our savings and just the our lifestyle. It's not crazy
And we're in the situation tour when all this hit I told you I was like I
Can have no income for the next year and not have to change our lifestyle
Now what I
Do that no of course. I'm gonna change my lifestyle. I'm gonna be a little more fruitful and and you know
We're gonna be a little more you know tedious over here and but you know we've been able to tie
We've been able to to give to different charities and different foundations and you know
I mean it's it's been nice to be able to to be in the situation that we're in and
It just comes down to I mean
What you've always talked about is discipline equals freedom and life is always taking the time
To work with me on that you've had
In-depth conversations with me on this. I mean I know a couple of times I've called and we get done with a call and I look at them
Like that was an hour and a half call. I'm really glad chocolate doesn't charge me his out of the rate because
Homey couldn't afford that one, but you know, I just it's it's incredible, you know
and
Always super thankful of all the blessings that God's have given me
But I also understand
That you have to work for stuff
You have to work and I saw the opportunity and I knew that I had to go all in I had to go all in with you guys
And by me going all in being 100% committed to what you guys
And built in respecting that and like Dave and I we've always we always talk with the other instructors
Any new instructors are like hey, this is joccon-laced company that they've built we are a part of it
But everything we do has has to honor and respect what they've built and
And we understand how important that is and
Just how did that mindset and to see that Cody and Cali on the FTX team they have that same mindset when Cody will call me about different stuff for an FTX
And and my default answer or my default answer to his question is and he knows this
But he's always he's just making sure we're aligned with stuff because there's certain things he knows like hey
He has to let me know
Is there certain things he just hey FY this is what I did I'm like cool good good to go is the answer is
What will deliver the absolute best training to our client and
Whatever that is within the reason
That's what we do we always take care of the client
We always make sure the client has the absolute best training the absolute best experience no matter what that's what we will always do
We don't cut corners we don't we will always do what's best for the client if that means that
You know
Training's gonna run long and we're gonna catch a flight the next day and we've been gone for two weeks
No factor we're not flying home early. We don't cut training early so we can get on a flight to get back home
You know, we will spend time you know that's we will always take care of the client and it's
It's awesome to see what we're getting ready to launch with the individual FTX program and
you know that this is an opportunity to wear
Is let's say a company they're not large enough to have a full field training exercise
They they just can't afford it. They can't bring you know
They don't have enough people to do it. Well what they can do is they can
Send a few of their leaders to this individual FTX or let's say it's an individual like echo and echo's like hey
It's just me like we see people come to the muscle. They just come by themselves because they want to
Have more hands on the of the train they've read the book
It's some dad that wants to be a better dad, right? We've met people that I hate we just want to be better parents
That's what became the master. Oh my god. That's awesome
They can sign up for the individual FTX and it's gonna be you know
There's different tiers to it, but it's gonna be the one tier that we know that we're absolutely launching is
That it's gonna be two days of field training exercises and you know, it's gonna be a small group
30 or less people within that group and it's gonna be two full days of field training exercises
Where they're we're putting them in stressful situations. It's all scenario based
They're gonna all rotate through different positions of leadership and we're gonna give them intel and
They're gonna take that intel and they're gonna plan their mission and their mission is gonna be a
Capture commission or you know, they're gonna go do a presence patrol through a different area
It's the same scenarios and same training or not same very similar to the same type of training that we ran in the sealed teams
And each of these scenarios are gonna be driven to enforce the leadership principles that we teach at echelon front
The laws are combat the mindsets of victory the different dichotomies that you experience as a leader
You're gonna feel it real time in training and that's what we saw was so impactful
The sealed teams was actual hands-on training when you can feel that stress
We can feel that pressure when you have to make a decision and people are gonna see void the leadership
And they're gonna see why it's important to step up and make a call even when you're not in that position of leadership
You're gonna see decentralized command working and decentralized command not working. You're gonna feel your communication
Not being effective and you're gonna come back and you know
You're gonna you know be frustrated and talk to the difference
Nothing like life is talking the other day on the EF online. We we hate when I were laughing at one of the FTXs
Because the OIC goes squad one on the left squad one on the right and I was like like nobody was moving. He knows anything like
And I remember one of the squad leaders like you just said squad one on the left squad one on the right like what would you want
And they're getting all frustrated or they'll make a call out and they're like the enemies over there
And I always be like over there over there over there like kind of like just kind of like hey
What cardinal direction is the enemy coming from like
They're on the right side of the building. I'm like you're right my right or two different
Our hundred reaction. He's not right now. He's like
Westside and so people actually understand
That they're not very good at communicating in stressful situations and
And with the companies that we've done it for I mean, I remember we've we've been in there
I don't remember if you're that the one and the mission again where one of the
Corporate leaders was saying you know what?
I need to a better job communicating with the union workers out in the field. I recognized that my communication sucks
And I have failed to build a relationship and then one of the union leaders steps up and goes
Hey, that's actually our fault because I could have come and built a relationship
And you're just seeing it like we're a company where at the beginning and when we were working with them
Union and corporate hated each other. They were like screaming at each other in the in the classroom before we started the training
And I was like and blaming each other. It was in saying the amount of blame was crazy
And then you see that that culture start to shift and change from these field training exercises
Because it's very humbling because everybody out there says oh
I've got this and they're playing the mission and they're just gonna be they think they're gonna come in and impress us
Everybody thinks they're general George Patton. Yes until the laser things starts beef and on their shoulder
And they realize what's up. I always say
You know that the training that we ran it trade at was the best leadership laboratory
I actually have changed this statement. I used to say it was one of the best leadership laboratories in the world
I actually think that it was the best leadership laboratory in the world ever and
Because and not just the best leadership laboratory, but also the best leadership
Instruction because when you're in those situations you learn them and it's it's they they smack you in the face and
You either address them or you get smack to again and when you get smack to them
It's so obvious what you did wrong
Here's the hey listen to that listen to the recording of what you were just saying squad one on the left squad one on the right
Listen that record it now. Do you think you were attached when you're doing that?
Do you think you were getting emotional a little bit? Do you think you had a step back? No?
So that's what it feels like and there's so that's why you know getting this FTX program off the ground
It's just a phenomenal way to drive these lessons home in the same way that they got driven home
Awesome and if it seems this is this is the this is the kind of cool thing you might think well
How the heck are we supposed to you know for you work at a financial company or you work at an insurance company or you work at a
Construction company
We don't know anything about tactics how are we gonna go you know do a mission on a presence patrol through a street it's
You spend a few hours learning these basic principles so basic just and there's nothing it's common sense right?
It's common sense it's also the laws combat cover move keep things simple prioritize next your decentralized command
That's what you're gonna learn and then you learn how to apply it very quickly and when you make mistakes
Believe me those those mistakes that you make are the best ways to learn that you're ever gonna get
So it's awesome and and then the the EF battlefield
You get to your automatically basically what happens in the EF battlefield
You're watching the mistakes, but you can see the mistakes made by the leaders and what they did well what they did wrong and you're kind of detached from it
So you again you get to see these things first hand and you get to stand where that leader stood and
See what that leader saw in that particular situation and those are all
powerful that yeah, that's why we call it
experiential learning because you are experiencing
What a leader experiences and and that's the best possible way to learn yeah, it's a
You know and and the other echelon front instructors that come out and help out on the FTXs and just
Seeing everybody being able to work together and just delivering the best training
Ever and I would a little biased, but not what I mean that's not but that's not just us saying
This is what our clients have said this is I mean the feedback that we get constantly from from people all the time and just
when you see the
The culture of a huge company drastically shift and change and they're saying hey
This is because of the field training program like I remember working with one company where there was just
The racial division was was very unfortunate and it was very real and I remember seeing it in
In one of the headquarters that we were visiting and working with then
Seeing that change
After FTXs where they're working together and they're understanding how important their roles and
Responsibilities are each other and just see them starting an intermingle and talk with each other and just just see those
Where it was to where it that now was just was incredible and it was it was so powerful
You know, these will be available in the very near future
If somebody goes to echelon front dog individual yes, yes, I just explained that to everybody
In the past what we've done is if you want you got to bring your company you got to bring a company people
So you got to bring 20 or 40 or 100 people and we run this FTX program
It's sort of like the monster. That's what we used to just do consulting for companies and and
I realized the shortfall was we were cut now
You know if you had three people in a company you can't bring in echelon front to do leadership training
I said let's bring everyone together that wants to do this training and a one big group and we'll do a training form
That's the monster that's the same thing with the with the individual FTX's you know
Whether you bring two or three people from your team four or five people from your team or you just come by yourself
Either any of those scenarios. It's like okay now
We're gonna learn we're gonna learn these leadership lessons at a at a
Deep level at a granular level that's gonna be
That's gonna be burned on to your soul
And it's awesome and the cool thing is like these the first ones use the pilot program that people are gonna be able to you know
Be a part of it's like being a part of like muster zero zero one like those are plank owners and people are gonna be
Plank owners of the individual FTX's
You know we were talking last night, you know
You're dinner table about the two different tiers that we know that we're gonna definitely do one like I said
It's just the the two full days of training and it's just gonna be
Run after run after run after run after run I mean you can be you're gonna have so many runs like somebody's gonna say
Hey, I'm gonna have to sit this one out and somebody's listening. Oh, yeah, right and I guarantee you it's going to happen
Because it's just the amount of
Of scenarios that we're gonna throw is it's gonna be incredible and the the actual
Learning fundamentals that you're gonna gain from those two days is there's nothing out there
Like it right now. There's nothing out there and then the next tier
It's gonna be a little bit longer. It'll be three days
You know it'll be
With with that group of 30 30 or less and you know, it'll be one day of
You know there'll be like round table discussions getting to know the unique
differences of the different businesses that
Talking through the different problems that people are going through and actually diving deep into their principles and and addressing it with a group and having
All the different individuals that are there actually contributing to
Like the leadership principles that we talk about and solve because as you see from EF online
I mean you look at the chat. I mean people are solving problems for each other people ask a question and there's
20 responses and so that's what that next tier is gonna be like is where they're gonna come in
We're gonna have that you know how the group dinner morning PT's day of runs dinner morning PT
Day of runs and then like a kind of like a final like recapping everything of
Of of of round table and that might be that might be a three three and a half day type of
Situation but for the individual program, you know people go to echelon front.com
We'll have the information up there by time this podcast is out
You know, it's
Just standby. It's gonna be awesome. Stand by to come and get some yes
Speaking of getting some I think we've been going for three and a half hours here
So
Bro thanks for coming back on I want to say the reason it's I guess maybe it's pretty obvious because people like when you have a JP back on
I'm like oh, it's soon as we can get together and
There you have it you look at your hits casually look at my schedule and guess when we're getting together
Oh, it only took four years
There was a couple opportunities we had
We're like at the master we couldn't I think at one master we were trying to pull it off and then like we'd be at the master and it'd be zero sleep and just total mayhem
Especially at the earlier masters when we weren't we weren't as square the way as we should be we should have been on the back end and
We just need to type we need to type things up. We need to learn and that's what we did but yeah, so that's why it took so long
but
For you can thanks for coming back on and we'll try not let's at least aim for
Do that even want to say
That's a two years away. No, we want that happen
Yeah, dude awesome to have you back on thank you as usual
Okay
Thank you. Thank you
Equatrolls yes
What questions lots of lessons there lots of lessons learned from JP lots of lessons learned about how to get better how to get back on the path
Mm-hmm
Got any suggestions for him? Well, yeah, that's the most suggestions me
So you're gonna be being on the path. I guess or whatever
That was made through a whole JP which made it through the whole podcast and we need to talk about your jitsu
That's kind of crazy
I can bring it up
Actually
I'm gonna say I'm like wow, well, I just said it's been three and a half hours and all of a sudden we're about to add into their two hours
Remember at the master when you slept in or whatever
What was the what was the diagnosis there? You're just like what sleep deprived freaking exhaust is wicked dire
Yeah, that's so undiagnosed but wasn't it kind of refreshing that like because I'd done that before
I'm not gonna say when whatever, but let's just say that's happened to me where it's like oh, sure
You look at the clock you're like man. I missed like a bunch of stuff
So then you got to sort of reenter the situation
You know, so that into suspicion is like it's kind of nerve-racking to say the least so then in your case
You got to reenter with jockel and life
Not to mention everybody else sort of waiting for you. Sorry to all right
So I know you're mad at yourself of course jpe's mad at himself well, but everything but how much of a refreshing
scenario was it that like they were kind of laughing and smiling?
I'd it changed everything totally does right?
Completely changed everything. Yeah, man. It's like it's the worst because like what if what if like they didn't say anything
They just like okay jpe's back, but then you kind of sense just a little bit of you know
Like they're a little bit short with you or something like that it's like that's like an added double triple torture right there
Yeah, he can't do that. It's like doesn't I didn't mean to help you, you know
But if so I'm sensing or I'm at least getting this indication
I know that you feel some level of guilt about being late
Is that factual because I'm not I'm not seeing that bro
No, well, why if you're talking about today my one minute late Brad
I'm at 45 oh that was early, Brad that's early for me brown from quiet one minute late. You know, it's not bad
Early bird gets it's the worm
So I'm on podcast you said you come from a long line of people
I mean you did 23 and me here DNA came up late
Yeah, yeah, so it was very clear the late marker on now and this yeah
Anyway
What I'm not laid on is my reentry to the jockel fuel discipline a
Freaking routine
You're in the game in the ground in the game. Oh, I even talk about this. Okay, so
We're talking about
Joint warfare krill oil discipline. That's all cool join warfare krill oil vitamin D maybe some cold war. That's good, right?
We talked about that all the time. We got JP here. Oh, we'll get to JP. He happens to have our apple
Signature
But here okay, so but the joint warfare thing here and here's the thing like I mean, you know
We take it every day. I do know about you. I take it every day or whatever
And it like I said I said before where it's like always on my mind
Right, so I kind of explore like why is it always on my mind?
And you came up with a freeze or a line of whatever you call it
The beatings are the darkness the gains are the light
Okay, I thought those were you
You don't want to set that interesting anyway
So the the point is this is why because when you're young and JP looking fit strong fit you know
Usually a good sign in life when you're looking at the feeling strong fit
But you know when you're young you're like okay, you know my big muscle my big muscles as you gain maturity
You figure out like the underlying foundations of things are
Usually proved to be more important and the underlying foundations of gains is
Skeletal and tissue strength strength instability exactly right
I went back completely correct. Yeah, so yeah, when you take those beatings
And you want to get those that recovery the gains your joints are one of the many things that take beatings
Do you spell gains with a Z?
No, sir, no, are you sure I'm positive? Yes, and me and P.D. You spell gains with a Z?
No, no, no, no, no, I was talking to Pete I can't think I can spell gains with a Z
Okay, and but that's maybe that be maybe that's just my own little sort of you know gains
Yeah, no, no, yeah, no, I was talking to Pete or
Maybe both of them Brian and we're talking about the word gains. It's like oh
That was a self-avelation
No, it's the only thing that's on the end of the game. It's a real thing, right?
Yeah, just like Z in the end of a lot of other words like boys me and my boys and you put a Z
He's like, bro, don't don't do that, but you didn't say me and my boys like that's not a violation
If it's like you know interesting I just understand why people go out of their way to miss spell works
Yeah, Brad today. It's it's interesting for sure
Maybe like your individual expression, you know
Either way, nonetheless. Yeah, okay, so take these things take take these things keep yourself in the game. That's important
But what what good is it if you're like muscles are super strong, but your joints can't hold it's like having a nice house with no freaking
Foundation agreed, bro, we're framing metaphor received
Anyway, so back to the
Back to the sour apple sniper okay JP, so why did we?
Um, shoot sour apple a sour apple
It's just a flavor that I've always enjoyed as a kid like I really like the sour apple
flavors of different candy and and stuff. I would eat as a kid the jolly ranchers
Those those
They're like karma like there's like sour green apple with a caramel like yeah, I just I've always really liked it
But honestly it was I talked to Brian because you know, it came out with Dakota Myers play Redax out of which is legit
It's really good and
No, I
Brian is the same way that you guys are about business is he's not gonna like commit or say something
ahead of it. He's just more reserved on it and I I had kind of talked about like what about like
You know different like signature flavor like you know kind of like one for me or other people would you guys be open to it?
And he's like well, we kind of got to see how these flavors do we just you want to see if there's even a demand and how it goes and obviously
What you know the projection of what he's been doing you know
P and Brian both with origin in soccer field and you guys is the growth. It's just it's incredible to see it and be a part of it
And so you know just kind of let it be with that conversation talk to Pete about it a little bit and
You know
They had asked like what would you think for the flavor in the name and I gave him a
name and a flavor and then I go ahead dig that
Kind of didn't go anywhere and then it was in you know January and I kind of brought it up again to Brian
I said you know I was like you know I'm thinking about what if it was like
Sarah Apple sniper I was trying to come up with the name that would be unique so fully can't you fully you
Sarah Apple sniper that's what you did that's yes, yes, and
And because the other name that I come up with was it worked well and I still like it's a good flavor
It's a good name what your other name there's another idea. What was it?
What would you talk about it offline?
Well, but someone might steal it something like that good. Oh, yes, and so
Camo Sarah was sniper and Brian was like okay, I like the name
He said I just you know a star Apple. I don't know how that will do it was like flavor in a drink and I said okay
Yeah, I was like that makes sense and we're kind of talking through it and
It was just I was like hey, I'm not trying to be the good idea fairy
Like I don't want to just be like coming to you with all these like hey
I have another good idea and it's expected you'd execute it. I'm like I want to help
Let me know what I can do like if there's an idea and then just you know kept
Conversations about it and then it just became a reality where you know Brian like reached out to me
It was like hey, you know think about this and it was going to start working on your flavor. Oh, okay cool
And I think Brian Brian got excited about it when some of the manufacturers came back to him like
That's a great idea and like there is a couple different companies that were wanting to kind of like
bid for being able to do it. I guess or wanted to be a part of it and then we got the first couple rounds of flavors and
It was okay. This is good
But it was make this tweak and a couple different tweaks and then jocco gaming feedback is like
Actually, it was really like it. It was actually good. It gives you the feedback and then
Yeah, and then just kind of tweaked it from there and then
They were able to execute obviously there are some delays with you know the whole coronavirus thing and
Cross-ination, but I mean
Came out you know jocco Palmer came out and there was a jet flavor and
And you know, it's like really good flavor. Oh man, Sarah was coming after that like
But yeah, I'm really super happy with the flavor. I mean the amount of support has been incredible like amount of people like
Set in me messages. I had just ordered six cases or had just ordered you know four pack to try out and then the order of four pack to try it out
They tried and then they're that same week ordering a case and you know
I think it should be available on Amazon soon vitamin shop should be getting there's soon in the game as well
They have the other flavors
But I mean there's been like the gym I train at you know peak performance
So it's where I do jiu jitsu and then next to it my buddy has a gym called 360 fitness where I'm in and I will train
And he does personal training there as well
He's been working with Amanda and then he's been doing personal training with Aiden helping with you know
Some coordination stuff and stuff and like he just ordered a
large order
He ordered a 40 cases and he's getting the the fridge in there and so there's you're seeing a lot of businesses now
Also that I've been connecting with oh with jocca fuel and of like ordering the fridge is like another like my buddy
their their business. They ordered 48 cases and
then
You know later that week ordered more and there's it's just the progression of growth is just crazy
to see
What people are doing the support for just all the jocco
flavors. I mean all the flavors are great. You know that's the thing is
You know, of course I want the sour apple snipers to continue to sell and and do well, but at the end of the day
Yeah, they're all they're all feeding each other. I said I would like but I'm saying at the end of the day
They're all feeding each other and it's you know what's crazy about this whole story? What?
There's two right now and there's more common, but there's two
Signature flavors you in Dakota. Yeah
Have you ever wondered about why that is
No, well, I guess the the maybe the
Like the the seed of
this this idea
maybe
had
Was it the seed this original idea of making an energy drink
is from
from
you and Dakota as
individuals, but more you and Dakota's you and Dakota as
People as a group of people so let's let's face it
you
Used to freaking drink energy drinks that are absolutely horrible for you and you would drink how many a day?
It was bad five to seven five to seven
That's that's freaking awful Dakota same thing and so
As and you know, I used to drink them when I would need like oh I need some caffeine because I'm on a long drive and it's late at night
Okay, I'm gonna drink this and then what happens the next you know once I crash from that from the sugar the insulin you feel like crap
But but as I thought about like hey because part of my mind is
I don't want to contribute to that like I don't want to make something that's gonna do that to people
But then immediately, but what am I gonna do with my friends?
You and you and Dakota you and you and Dakota that mean it just you guys are
Sort of the archetype of the
Energy drink drink a right. Hey, I didn't get much sleep, but I want to get after it boom boom boom
That's that's what it is. So I don't want to contribute to
poisoning my friends and
People like my friends so I'm not gonna do that, but wait a second
What if we can actually make something that is legitimately good for you?
That's why when it was like okay
We need it. Well, we want I think that whole idea of a signature thing. It's like you know what there's two guys that
Should have a signature freaking energy drink that's good for them and then that's where we're at
That's awesome. Yeah, I got a message from one of my buddies, you know obviously
Um most people that listen podcast probably know this because you follow joker you follow origin you follow joker
If you'll Pete Brian all them as well is you know we just brought on Bryce Mitchell as a sponsor
Protein member right you know thug nasty. Yeah. He's got a big fight coming up. Yeah, he just hit top 15
For his rankings as well on the UFC and you know his manager Matt it's a great guy and he's I've always had a good relationship with him and Bryce
And I use a sponsor price when I had never settled a parallel and I did what I could at back
That you know
Which wasn't much, but you know us being able to bring them on board the team is is awesome. He's a
Great fit but his manager is like hit me up. He's like, too
That's Sarah. It was not really dick years
He's like I got my put it on I put it on I still got super cool. He's like I'm gonna get my wife off of drinking the other energy drinks because she's a nurse
And she what she do say she think you know boom goes in I said hey
Let your wife know
The flavor isn't gonna make sense throughout the beginning because she's so used to like all this other sugar and junk and everything
I was like that because that's a lot of people say like well the flavor is a little different
But then that they'll drink a few of them like oh, this is really good. I like it
You know because you have to understand like you don't drink a lot of sugar. You never have any yeah most people that do
Like now you're actually drinking that something that's all natural
has no sugar. It's it's good for you like that's crazy and so he's
My purpose is saying all that is he's super thankful that he's gonna now be able to get his wife off of the other
Energy drinks. She's gonna be able to have part of this and Bryce is like all about this like he's sending me text messages
He's putting and he's like man. This is my go to someone who goes to it
It's really you know the other thing that
A jocca fuel an origin had been doing is growing their sponsored team members like you know working with they call it the protein right
Just different members that are gonna reflect it gonna be a good reflection of origin and jocca fuel and what that means
You know and Brian and them have been working hard. They're releasing an ambassador program
So there are people that if they want to represent origin and jocca fuel
They can actually apply to do that and be a brand ambassador for the two best companies that are out there right now
And so it's just it's crazy that I am a part of all this. It's just a little bit of it
It just blows me away a man and I you know my wife man and I were talking last night about it and I was just
It's just crazy just to see it, you know, and I
Know we're gonna close it out like he has no one would do, but you know
I have to take a moment to thank Amanda and and Aiden and Korra and Nola
Just for their dedication to me to just always have my back, you know Amanda's through thick and thin
I'm not an easy person to live with I'm not an easy person to be married with to work with
I have a lot of you know demons that I work through and you know
She she knows that and sees that and she'll be like you just need to go to the gym all right
or hey go sit in the sauna or go to do some jitsu because she knows
you know
All the guys that I work with and do jiu jitsu over at peak and
Justin and Zach over 360 fitness like they're there to support me and they support my family it's it's unlike anything I've ever seen you know and
They they
The loyalty and it's it's incredible and it's so swine. I was like lacking and you know
That's what I was missing out on again and just to have that, but it's all driven from Amanda and my family and
You know when the drink came out
You know Amanda you know we got it and choose like I was this awesome
You know it was really cool and she like comes up and she gives me a hug and she like put their hand on my chest and she's like just looking up at me
She's okay. I'm really proud of you
Like I am really proud of everything that you've worked for
It's been a road
Your issues like it's been a it's been a it's been a it's been a I wish she's exactly it was this not a rough road
But it's something you know don't belong to journey right and I just I
Was just soaking in and because
Then we've had some dark times between the two of us and just to know that in the last four years
We went from all the struggles everything up and down to where you know
We just received like cases of
Sour apple sniper with my signature on it and just all the crazy thing that's coming up and the
Just the the relationships with origin and jocco fuel. I mean I know you're very thankful for that partnership
But to like when we really look into like who p is and who Amanda Roberts is and who Brian Littlefield is and everyone associated with those companies
They are some of the best people that I know
Legitimately some of the best people I know and what they're doing here in America
What you guys are doing echo and jocco with them in America?
It's it gives me a sense of pride to be like hey, this is another mission that I can at least maybe help a little bit
I can contribute a little bit, you know
And so I'm just so thankful just for all these opportunities. It's it's unreal and you know I
What I'm thankful as well is this is a platform for me to be able to give back and serve and serve more people
And that's you know something we can get into on another podcast of just some of the stuff that we have on in the horizon of different foundations to be able to help out and be able to work alongside
You know mom and Lee with America's might warriors she
Her foundation probably legitimately saved my life because in March I got super sick
We don't know what was going on you remember I was I was pissing blood for two weeks rate my body was shutting down
We don't know why
Kidney failure adrenal gland failure and just just a bunch of other stuff that was going on
I was throwing up my head was killing me. I was getting those headaches again word vision
I was losing like the ability like to talk sometimes like I couldn't find my words. I couldn't focus and
You know coronavirus hit and
I
Debbie Lee mom-ali reached out to me and she says hey, I got you approved for age-bought treatments a hyperbaric oxygen treatments
You have the time let's get you in there and I I was doing those treatments and
It was a realization to me of how hard mom-ali is working to serve others and
I have this opportunity to be able to try to help and give back and
You know there's there's good foundations like America's Mario Warriors that are doing so much for people that most people don't know about and
You know I did all those treatments and
It was incredible the difference that it made for my body like a complete 180
Like able to work out again like I blocked out in the middle of a workout and
Past out and I mean it was it was bad or like we're just still not sure what would happen and
And
Yeah, and then now a few months later. I'm able to work out and train hard again and actually get back in the training
You jitsu and then you know actually working out
I'm just trying to get back on that path again and it's you know just all the clean supplements from
Jocquafuel and an origin is just everything. It's just made a huge difference. That's crazy
Yeah, so you're doing those curls on the internet. Yeah, the varying levels of emotional response from you. I didn't I didn't
Take a film of the last one I hit, but I will for you
Okay, all right, all right, okay, so you're you doing well is that preacher is that preacher curl now?
Straight bar back home
Put the preacher curls yeah legit for sure. So yes speaking of curls milk right you need that protein
That's probably way you can curl that much on that maltrain anyway protein in the form of a dessert
Yeah, don't forget about that
Yeah, that is to sum up the jockel fuel supplementation line. Oh wait no
Jocquafuel you can't forget the word you could milk all good. You can get it vitamin shop
You can get it at origin main dot com you can also get jiu jitsu stuff there you can get geese
You can get a rash guard you can get so that's good. You're covered kind of for jiu jitsu
But you're not really covered for the street if you only have a geey
That's true. So that's why you have to have origin genes
Which you can wear on the street
You can kind of wear them on the mats of justice as well if they're dealt with jiu
It's kind of flexible. Okay, so you could jeans you can get boots. You can get t-shirts. You can get rash guards
geese
hats
hoodies sure all that stuff made in America and by the way jpe when you're like oh, it's it feels good to be a part of that
That's what everybody feels like when you you when you're when you're when you put on an origin
Petit shirt when you put on an origin hoodie when you put on an origin pair of jeans
You're part of what we are doing
Bringing manufacturing back to America and that's awesome
Orgene mean dot com also jocco
Jocco as a store. It's called jocco store. So this is if you want to represent while we are on the path that we are on
factually we too have rash guards a little bit more indicative of
the path directly
same same also made
Oh, yeah, that was a good word. Yes, so we do have origin rash cards manufactured in America made in America
designed by not Pete Roberts, but in America, but in America, but yes designed in America
Maybe by acquitturals yes in terms of visual impact sure so there's two different people know all right
Some people look at the Pete Roberts stuff and they go hey, I like that some people might think they want something a little bit more on the
Jocco store side yes
Indicative of the path yes, that's where yes, so yes
Jocco's there also t-shirts on there disciplinical freedom good
You know you gotta represent these things get after it some hats on there some hoodies on there some shorts on there shorts are in
Sort just straight up in board shorts. I like it. That's cool. I don't have mine yet
That's true. You know in a jack-dough some of us are sort of in the game some of us are you know
You're you're the what do you call it? You're the second guy what do you call it one like the first people the primary people get their stuff?
You know you're a first was it a first responder?
No, it's not a first one like that early adapter. That's you. I'm over here in the rear
You're out the gear you're early early
Followers and drink this either way you'll get yours while get ours these are all good things. Jocco store dot com if you like something on there
Don't forget to subscribe subscribe to this podcast
Don't forget also that we have some other podcasts. We've got jocco unraveling with Darrell Cooper. We've got grounded
We've got warrior kid podcast
We've got a YouTube channel where echo allegedly puts effort into making videos
The top rope slow here like a
And in no time any time that the video is long you can expect to see no
No effects no effects, but if the video is short you can see an overload of effects
You can be the judge you can leave comments if you think echo put an appropriate amount of explosions in a video
You can say appropriate if you think he did not you can put lacking those are your two choices
Just to put in the comments either appropriate or lacking. I think if you look at a long video
You're probably gonna put lacking since there's zero. No, but that's appropriate. It seems saying zero is a
Perth or a lot of people don't feel that way a lot of people wouldn't mind a little visual stimulation
But whatever noted you're over there on your own program also got an album called psychological warfare
Which is an album where I talk about some things if you're maybe heading down the wrong path
Maybe you're about to make a bad decision. Don't do it press play on your
MP3 player on your phone device device of whatever kind that's putting music
Putting things putting sounds into your ears go ahead hit psychological warfare overcome that weakness no factor
course to it. I pretty look
guaranteed
That you'll after the fact be appreciative of psychological warfare
You're going into psychological warfare you want to win. Yes, you want to win that battle
When you win that battle guaranteed you're gonna feel better
You're not gonna look back and say damn I really wish I would have had that don't it?
Zero chance of that happening there's zero chance that you look back and say I wish I wouldn't have listened to psychological warfare and
Skip the workout. No, you get done with a workout. You're like. Yes. Yeah. I won the battle
Yeah, there's literally no circumstance where you're like dang. I'm so happy I slapped off like
You know, you know
Happy so stoked I slack off good thing I slack off
Under no circumstance is you're right hundred percent you might want a visual representation of these things
You can get that from flipside canvas dot com Dakota Meyer
That's his company. He's keeping it real
Also got some books the code the evaluation of protocol leadership strategy and tactics field manual
All the answers are in that book by the way
All these and all the questions that I get asked their answers are always in there. Oh
Oh blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
Page 47 what about this page 98 what about that what about what I do in my boss does this page 114
Way the warrior kid one two and three Mikey in the dragons
Teach a little kid to overcome fear can you imagine?
Super power you have when you're a little kid and you realize you don't need to be afraid
Give them that power give them Mikey in the dragons discipline you're free them feel manual
How to get after and then of course extreme ownership and the dichotomy of leadership the foundational principles
Written by myself and my brother, Dave Babin
we also have and
Leadership consultancy we talked about today if you want help with your leadership go to
echelon front dot com and that's how you can get us in the game with you
EF online that is
The online training JP talked about it today. I talked about it. I think a little bit today
But we've been referring to back to it a lot because we're getting a lot of good
Questions problem solving leadership situations being handled
It's awesome live if you want to ask JP a question
You if you actually want to ask JP to know a question
Do you have to travel to Texas to do that? No, you can go to EF online on a Wednesday
And JP will there you may have got a question for JP if you want to ask me a question
Do you have to come to California to do that? No, you don't you can go to EF online
You can ask me a question. What if it's a complicated question cool bring it?
What if it's a question that's too long for Twitter great?
You're not on Twitter. You're sitting in a Zoom meeting
You got some good answers on that. Yeah, I was mad. That's some good on that's what we do
So go to EF online.com if you want to engage with us there. We also have the master two of them this year have been canceled
Orlando and Phoenix the next one is in Dallas December 3rd and 4th
A lot of people that were going to either Orlando or
Phoenix are now coming to Dallas. We're probably going to have to do some kind of social distancing that means less seats available
So if you want to come
Go to extremotorship.com and in role. We have EF Overwatch
Executive leadership what you need inside your organization. Why not get someone that has the principles that we talked about today in their mind and can apply them
Someone from the military someone with experience in leadership positions that can come into your organization and
Help move you in the right direction
Go to EF Overwatch.com
I always talk about America's mighty warriors.org. It's what J.P. just talked about
I always say that
Mama Lee's mission has become to help service members
There's a service member J.P. How does she help by providing medical treatment to heal up
Military members that have made sacrifices
So if you want to get involved, all you want to donate go to america's mighty warriors.org help veterans
And if you have too much time on your hands
and you
You want to hear just a few more of my monotonous monologues
or if you want to hear more a little just a little bit more of echo Charles's
Riatis Ramblings
You can find us on the other web's on Twitter Instagram Facebook
Echoes at aquatrawls. I am at jocquillink and jp is at jp denel di n n e l l two ends two else
On Instagram Twitter Facebook Echo Charles and Eclosing thoughts. Nope. I have no closing thoughts. Good to see J.P. again
Yes, well J.P. anything else
Thank you
To you in life
For the opportunity that you've given my family
Like Dave Burke and I have talked many times. His family knows where all this comes from
My kids are well aware of everything that uncle Lief and uncle jocco has given them and
You know again, thank you to Amanda for her support
Is the ultimate cover move? I could not do what I do with you guys if it wasn't for her support
so she is
She's my queen she is everything. I don't treat her as good as I should
And I need to do a better job at that and understand that I could not how the opportunity that I have with you guys if it was not for her
and the kids supporting everything that I do and
I don't I don't want you in life or any of anybody on the team to everything that I take this for granted
That I feel like I deserve more than I should get
I am thankful to be here. I'm thankful for my seat at the table and I will always be with you guys until the end
Well first of all as far as Amanda goes I'm thinking maybe
Amanda Mango is on the horizon
Get her little signature drink
Yeah, and I'm not gonna open up at the bat with you right now in terms of thanking me and I probably told you this at least probably
Five times no more than that in certain situations that you don't ever have to thank me for anything
I thank you for what you did for me for what you did for tasking a bruiser for what you did for the teams for what you did to the country and
For our country
So never have to thank me. I thank you
And all the other military personnel out there on those forgotten barricades
Who protect our way of life in the world?
Thanks to all of you and to the police and law enforcement in firefighters and paramedics and EMTs and dispatchers and
Correctional officers and border patrol and secret service and all the other first responders
Thanks to all of you for standing up to serve even when you're under attack from all sides
And to everyone else out there
No one said that the path is gonna be easy and
It's not
That's the way life is
And
You're gonna go through some low spots and you might be running low on ammo
And you you might even feel like
There's no hope
But you know what
Doesn't matter
Keep fighting
Keep keep keep fighting keep striving keep going and don't give up because the only real failure is actually giving up and if you don't give up
You will not fail them
You
And until next time
This is JP and echo and jockel out